"rnk","val","speech","context"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, our government is committed to innovation to ensure our health care system is sustainable. At a recent meeting with provincial and territorial colleagues, our Minister of Health discussed the need for innovative solutions to ensure that we have a strong health care system now and well into the future. On the topic of historic health care transfer dollars, I want to reassure our colleagues that we will hit a record $40 billion in transfers by the end of the decade. We are also funding over $1 billion for innovative health research that funds over 14,000 researchers across Canada. Through our record transfer dollars we are helping all Canadians.","health research"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, once the Canada–Europe trade agreement is fully implemented, agricultural tariff lines will be 95% reduced or removed. That means 500 million new consumers, hungry consumers, for beef, pork and bison. I know that Soderglen Ranches in Airdrie is excited about the opportunity the European market holds for our beef producers. This is a $1 billion part of a $12 billion net benefit as a result of this deal for Canada.","trade agreement"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, that question is a bit rich coming from a party that voted against increased pipeline inspections and fines for polluters. The National Energy Board is a strong independent regulator that ensures pipeline safety. We have increased the number of inspections by 50%. We have doubled the number of audits. We have put forward fines for companies that break Canada's rigorous environmental protections. We require pipeline operators to have $1 billion in financial capacity to ensure taxpayers are not on the hook.","pipeline liability"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, our government is committed to investing in women's health, and unfortunately too many Canadian families have had to face this terrible disease. Our government is committed to investing in prevention strategies so fewer Canadians have to take on the battle against cancer. That is why yesterday I was delighted to announce significant investments in partnership with the Canadian Breast Cancer Foundation. This investment builds on the $1 billion our government has already made in cancer research and prevention since taking office.","health research"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, in fact, our government is the single largest investor when it comes to research. We have funded over $1 billion. Our government is committed to supporting innovation and research that improves the efficiency of the health care system and helps Canadians maintain good health. We are also investing in key areas mentioned in the report, including health human resources, health information technology, and other pan-Canadian priority areas, such as cancer and mental health.","health research"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, as the member will know, Canada Post delivered one billion fewer individually addressed letters in 2012 than it did in 2006. The Conference Board of Canada, in its report, projected that Canada Post could lose roughly $1 billion a year by 2020. The member will also know, though, that Canada Post, as an arm's-length crown corporation, is responsible for its operations, including business and financial decisions. It is their five-point plan.","canada post"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, we co-operate on an ongoing basis with provinces. In fact, I just got off the phone with one our provincial health ministers with whom I work very closely. The member should also know that, while there are areas in which Canada can improve, there are also areas where Canada is number one in the world. There are always improvements that can be made, which is why we must collaborate. The provinces are very thankful for what now is long-term, very stable, predictable funding that will reach up to $40 billion by the end of the decade. That is record funding to support the provinces and territories. In our field, of course, we are investing $1 billion in the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, supporting over 13,000 research projects, ongoing, right now.","health research"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, apparently the member opposite does not know that Halifax is on the coast and the Ocean line continues to run from Halifax to Montreal and to points well beyond that. When it comes to VIA Rail and support for VIA Rail, we have invested $1 billion since 2007 in capital investments and $275 million across the network in 2013. What did that member say in the House last night? He said he was proud to vote against every dollar of it. Shame on him.","rail investement"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, if Canada Post continued on the path it was on prior to its five-point plan, it would have lost $1 billion by 2020. That is the bill the taxpayers of Canada would have to pay. While it is difficult to hear that 8,000 positions will be lost, the reality is that these will be lost through attrition. These are jobs that would not be there necessarily, as a result of people retiring or leaving the service.","canada post"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, in fact, we have invested over $1 billion in the patient wait times guarantee. According to the Canadian Institute for Health information, there have been excellent results on the wait time guarantees, which we are working on with the provinces.","wait times guarantee"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, I thank my hon. colleague from Perth—Wellington for his concern for smaller communities and for the spectacular question. With our new building Canada plan, our government will, in fact, provide unprecedented support for infrastructure to communities across this country: stable, predictable funding over the next decade. This will include the gas tax fund, a $22-billion fund, with expanded categories and increased flexibility. Yesterday the Prime Minister announced a new $1-billion fund specifically for smaller communities. We look forward to improving our infrastructure across this country and getting the job done.","infrastructure"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, the member will know that Canada Post is encountering dramatic deficits, and those are projected to be up to $1 billion in just a few years. It has a five-point plan it has taken as an independent crown corporation that is arm's-length from the government on its operational decisions. It has released publicly its implementation plan, and I refer the member to read that plan.","canada post"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, all members of this House can appreciate how important partnerships in health research are in ensuring continued breakthroughs in medical science. That is why I am so proud of our government's yearly investment of over $1 billion to support nearly 13,000 health researchers. I would like to ask the Minister of Health to please update this House on our government's latest investment to support health research.","health research"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, the reality is that there is a lack of demand at Canada Post. It has had a responsibility since 1981 to be self-sufficient. We know that in the coming years, given the fact that the reduction in mail volume is 25%, it could see a deficit of $1 billion coming. That is serious for Canadian taxpayers. That is why Canada Post is taking action. Its five-point plan, once implemented, would see it self-sufficient again in 2019.","canada post"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, obviously health is a priority for this government because we have funded now, through the provinces and territories, the largest and highest recorded health transfer dollars in Canadian history. This record funding will reach up to $40 billion annually by the end of the decade. Of course, that does not include the $1 billion in annual funding going to thousands of research projects across this country. However, the reality is that more money is not the solution to some of the health care inefficiencies in our system. We have to work together with the provinces and territories to address this issue, and that is what we are doing, tackling that policy challenge head-on.","health research"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, on the first point, apparently good news is bad news for the members opposite. As to Manitoba, federal support to Manitoba is at an all-time high. Manitoba will receive nearly $3.4 billion in federal transfers this year, a 24% increase from under the old Liberal government, including over $1.7 billion through equalization; over $1 billion through the Canada health transfer, an increase of 47% from under the Liberals; and $453 million through the Canada social transfer, an increase of $121 million. Clearly, nothing has been cut.","health transfer to manitoba"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, my colleague is misleading people by deliberately neglecting to mention the building Canada plan, one of the four components of the plan. The building Canada plan represents $53 billion over 10 years. It is the longest and most significant plan in the country's history. Municipalities will directly receive 71% for infrastructure. As for the component she mentioned, we have set aside $1 billion for municipalities with 100,000 people or less.","infrastructure"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, the reality is that there are one billion fewer pieces of mail being delivered in Canada since 2006. Along with that, of course, comes the reality that the revenues are not exceeding what the expenses are and, in fact, it is estimated that it is going to cost $1 billion per year to Canadian taxpayers. Canada Post has a five-point plan. That five-point plan includes the increase in postal rate stamps today, and we support Canada Post on its path forward to return to self-sufficiency.","canada post"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, the fact of the matter is that in 2012 Canada Post delivered one billion fewer pieces of mail than it did in 2006. We know that this trend is going to continue in the future as people use email far more than they use letter mail. In order to deal with this reality, Canada Post has developed a five-point plan. One part of its plan is to increase the price of stamps. That is what happened on April 1. We support Canada Post in this plan because we want to ensure that it is not the taxpayer at the end of the day who is responsible for a $1 billion-a-year shortfall.","canada post"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, the New Democrats and the Liberals are the only ones in this House who think that Canada Post is not facing a crisis. They have said that on the record, and it cannot be more wrong. In fact, in 2012, Canada Post delivered one billion fewer addressed letter mail pieces than it did in 2006. That number is plummeting. It is projected to run deficits of nearly $1 billion just six years from now. They want Canada Post to do nothing. We at least support it.","canada post"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, that is nonsense. The government has invested over $1 billion in capital investments for VIA Rail. We invest millions every year in its overall network. I am reminded, though, that the member over there is the one who continually and consistently votes against that support for VIA Rail. That is a shameful record. We will do our part.","rail investement"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, what Canada Post is doing right now is addressing a very real situation it is facing. It is simple. There are going to be one billion fewer pieces of mail delivered this year than there were in 2006. The reality is that the revenue numbers are not as high as they used to be, so Canada Post needs to react to it by developing a five-point plan. In this plan, it is putting forth a way to ensure that Canadian taxpayers are not on the hook for a $1 billion shortfall in the coming years.","canada post"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, this government is firmly behind the plan for Canada Post, the reason being that we do want to have a sustainable Canada Post and postal service going on for many years. Given that Canada Post at the current rate, and in the current scenario, will lose $1 billion a year in the future, their five-point plan makes a lot of sense. That is their way to come back to self-sustainability to ensure that they are not a burden on the taxpayer.","canada post"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, first of all, Canada has without a doubt one of the safest and healthiest food systems in the world, and in fact the Canadian Food Inspection Agency assures me that there have been no cuts to front-line food inspectors. Since 2006 there has been a net increase of over 750 inspectors, and economic action plan 2014 just recently committed to hiring even more inspectors. This is on top of the $500 million we have already invested. This brings almost $1 billion in new investment into the food safety system. As I said, we have one of the healthiest and safest food systems in the world and we are going to keep it that way.","food safety"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, investments in health research, and particularly research in the area of mental health, are important contributions to both the health of Canadians and indeed the world at large. Millions of Canadians will suffer from neurological illnesses during their lives, impacting their families and their communities. That is why I am proud of our government's yearly investments of up to almost $1 billion to support nearly 13,000 health researchers. Can the Parliamentary Secretary to the Prime Minister update the House on the government's latest investments in health research?","health research"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, to be clear, Canada Post has a five-point plan to modernize the postal service. Obviously, we support that Canada Post do something about the bleeding on its balance sheet. It is posted, according to a Conference Board report, to lose up to $1 billion a year by 2020, which is not that far away. This is because Canadians are choosing to communicate in very different ways than they did even a few years ago. We certainly hope that Canada Post can get its balance sheet back under control and ensure that Canadians continue to have mail service.","canada post"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, yesterday the Minister of Natural Resources was in British Columbia to announce new pipeline safety measures that will apply to existing and future pipelines. We are proud that Canada is the first country to bring forward a $1-billion absolute liability limit. Regardless of fault, the company will be responsible should a spill occur. These measures demonstrate our government's commitment to the principle of polluter pays and responsible resource development.","pipeline liability"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, that is from a member whose party said very clearly that there is no crisis at Canada Post, when in fact it delivered a billion fewer letters in 2012 than it did in 2006. In fact, economists at the Conference Board of Canada have said that Canada Post would be losing up to $1 billion per year if it took no action. It did, with its five-point action plan, as the member knows, and we have heard from Canada Post which says that they are taking into consideration the concerns of seniors and others as they implement their five-point plan, but we expect them to operate on a financially self-sustaining basis.","canada post"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, yesterday the Competition Bureau provided a submission to the CRTC that has confirmed what our government has been saying: that Canadians want more choice, lower prices, and better service in the wireless sector. Competition lowers prices and keeps business from becoming complacent. The Competition Bureau estimates that a fourth national wireless carrier could benefit consumers and add $1 billion a year to our economy. Can the parliamentary secretary inform the House of what our government is doing to promote more competition in the wireless sector?","wireless competition"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, that is nonsense. The member should know that Canada Post is an arm's-length crown corporation. It operates on a day-to-day basis, including its long-range strategic plans. It does have a five-point plan. Why? It is because the Conference Board of Canada has done a study that indicates, as a result of moving a billion fewer letters than it did six years ago, and that trend forecasts to go into the future, it could lose as much as $1 billion annually. Something needed to be done. Canada Post has taken action. I refer her comments to Canada Post instead.","canada post"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, concussions are something I know a little about, having endured one now for a couple of months and continuing to deal daily with a concussion. Canada is a leader when it comes to investing in health care research. We are the single biggest investor in health care research in the entire country, investing over $1 billion. I was very pleased earlier this year in Toronto to make a very sizeable announcement investing in acquired brain injuries.","health research"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, everything we do on health care is in collaboration and co-operation with the provinces and territories, including the $40 billion annually at the end of this decade that we are transferring to the provinces for delivery of health care. I am a lot more optimistic than the member opposite. We have seen, through our investment in wait times guarantee of over $1 billion, that the provinces are making very good progress in certain areas. They are meeting nearly 80% of time targets in areas like cataract surgery, hip replacement, hip fracture repair and also in radiation therapy. The provinces are working hard at this and they are getting some very good results.","wait times guarantee"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, we are an active partner in reducing wait times. The member knows we provided $1 billion for the provinces and territories to establish the wait times guarantees in their own priorities areas. Importantly, they were able to choose those areas that were priorities for them in their own health systems. We have seen concrete results with, as I said, priority procedures in provinces meeting nearly 80% of time targets, including radiation therapy and other procedures. We are working with the provinces and territories in many other ways to help them reduce wait times and on things like electronic health records. We are also working with them on a national strategy for health human resources to help reduce wait—","wait times guarantee"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, this government is unprecedented in its support of Marine Atlantic, totalling $1 billion in the past six years in its costs, both in terms of capital and its operating costs. We encourage Marine Atlantic to continue the great work it does of transiting people across to Newfoundland and, of course, making sure it does so in a responsible way, managing the taxpayers' dollars.","marine atlantic"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, the government has shown leadership on wait times by providing $1 billion for the provinces and territories to establish guarantees in wait time priority areas. We have seen some very good progress with the provinces. They have met almost 80% of their time targets, including for radiation therapy, hip replacements, and hip fracture repair. We will continue to work with them, but this is an area they are focused on. I would remind the member as well that we know from the recent report of the Canadian Institute for Health Information that we have the highest level of physicians now working in Canada. This is a tough challenge for the provinces and territories, so we stand ready to support them.","wait times guarantee"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, the member should know that in 2012, Canada Post delivered a billion fewer pieces of mail than it did in 2006. In 2013, that number slipped to 1.2 billion fewer pieces. The trend is confirmed in the Conference Board's report that says Canada Post will be posting losses of up to $1 billion per year by 2020. Canada Post has responded with a five-point plan. The member will know that Canada Post is an arm's-length crown corporation. It is carrying out its plan.","canada post"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, the member well knows that Canada Post is an arm's-length crown corporation that is responsible for its operational decisions. It also has a legislative mandate to not be a financial burden to the taxpayers of this country. It has a serious and growing problem with 1.2 billion fewer letters being delivered than just a few years ago and deficits which the Conference Board of Canada suggests will reach $1 billion by 2020. It had to take urgent action. It has a five-point plan and it is implementing it.","canada post"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, Health Canada includes some of the leading research scientists in this country. In fact, we invest over $1 billion in health research across the country. We are the top investor when it comes to health research in this nation. As I have just indicated, we are quite concerned about the recent allegations and we are investigating.","health research"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, he was actually the one who made cuts when he was minister. The president of CBC/Radio-Canada had this to say about the weekend's events: “All of our employees are currently engaged in a transformation process that will enable us to meet the challenges of the new media world that are facing all large broadcasters.” CBC/Radio-Canada is attracting fewer viewers than before, despite the fact that it is receiving more than $1 billion in direct subsidies from taxpayers each year. The changes to CBC/Radio-Canada are a result of that decrease. It is up to CBC/Radio-Canada to deal with it.","cbc"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, I have repeated several times in this House that the CBC receives over $1 billion from taxpayers. In fact, their viewership has declined despite getting over $1 billion in direct subsidies every single year from taxpayers. Changes at the CBC are a result of both declining viewership and declining revenues. The CBC is responsible for its own choices. It is up to it to produce, both in English and French, programming that Canadians want to watch and see.","cbc"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, our thoughts and prayers remain with the families affected by the tragedies in Moncton. Nonetheless, the changes at Radio-Canada have nothing to do with what happened that day. As I said before, the crown corporation is attracting fewer viewers, even though it receives more than $1 billion every year in taxpayer subsidies. The changes are directly related to that decline. The corporation is responsible for its own decisions. It is up to the CBC to provide Canadians with programming they want in English and French.","cbc"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, I will tell my constituents, the young constituents in particular, that I learned how to speak French listening to Radio-Canada. I will encourage them to continue to do so. I will also tell them that we continue to provide CBC/Radio-Canada with over $1 billion every year so it can deliver quality programming that Canadians want to listen to and watch. In the meantime, I will encourage that member to continue to encourage those young people to learn both English and French, and to respect the national broadcaster and the work it does.","cbc"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, the member may be right about the uniqueness of the CBC. He is certainly completely offside and wrong about the funding for the CBC. As Hubert Lacroix said, there are “challenges of a rapidly changing media environment to which no conventional broadcaster is immune.” The CBC's viewership has declined, despite getting more than $1 billion in direct subsidies from the federal government and taxpayers. Changes at the CBC are the result of declining viewership in certain demographics and lower-than-expected advertising revenues. That is the issue, and that is what CBC is working on.","cbc"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, the changes made by the Canadian Institutes of Health Research's board of governance were made independently. These changes will allow for additional support for researchers as they leverage new dollars. I can assure this House that Canada, through Health Canada and through the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, remains the single largest contributor to health research, spending over $1 billion each year. Since we have formed government, we have invested almost a quarter billion dollars in aboriginal health research.","health research"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, I am very proud of the fact that we are, as the Government of Canada, the single largest contributor to health research in Canada, investing $1 billion a year. That supports nearly 13,000 researchers across the country doing everything from basic research to applied research in areas like cancer, HIV-AIDS, dementia, and many more. The issue the member is raising was addressed very clearly in a statement sent out by the head of the CIHR, Dr. Alain Beaudet. I would refer the member to that, and if she wants further information, I am happy to facilitate a meeting with her and him.","health research"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, we certainly understand, from a remote and smaller community perspective, that services need to be delivered. That is why the CBC receives over $1 billion a year from the federal government and from its revenue in order to deliver services. The best part of all of this is that the CBC is responsible for the services that it delivers, and we leave it in its hands to do so.","cbc"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, despite the member's little jokes, the truth is that the government is already giving CBC/Radio-Canada over $1 billion a year. I have already indicated a number of times what we expect from CBC/Radio-Canada, and that is that it promote programs that Canadians want to watch and listen to in English and in French. That is why it receives $1 billion a year.","cbc"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, I will repeat what I said in English. The member knows very well that we provide the CBC with over $1 billion every year. We expect that it will honour its mandate under the Broadcasting Act to provide quality programming in French and English to Canadians. I find it strangely odd that the NDP would suggest that we actually take money away from taxpayers, as we provide a universal child care benefit, to give to an organization that gets over $1 billion a year. That is what I call irresponsible and we will not be going down that road.","cbc"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, VIA Rail's primary objective is to provide safe and efficient passenger service, but it has to do it in as cost-effective a manner as possible. The government has supported VIA Rail significantly since 2006. In fact, $1 billion in investment has gone into this passenger rail service. We always ask VIA Rail how it plans to increase ridership and how it plans to improve service. It is its job to get it done, and we expect it to do so.","rail investement"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, as the member knows, in the last budget we invested another $390 million in the Canadian Food Inspection Agency. That is almost $1 billion, under our government, into food safety. Today the Conference Board of Canada rates our food safety system number one against 17 other OECD countries. We are very proud of that. We can always do better. In terms of this issue, I am aware of it, and I have asked the Canadian Food Inspection Agency to provide a safe and respectful workplace and environment, as we all expect, and I know it will be doing that.","food safety"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, the member knows full well that since our government came to power, we have invested close to $1 billion in the food safety system in this country. What has that resulted in? The Conference Board of Canada rates our food safety system as number one against 17 OECD countries. We will continue to invest in our food safety system and are proud of its record.","food safety"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, Canada Post, an independent crown corporation, is responsible for its own operations, which include its commercial and financial decisions. Canadians are choosing means other than letters to communicate with each other. Because of the drop in demand, the volume of mail has plunged by nearly 25% since 2008, and the trend is steady. The Conference Board of Canada expects Canada Post to lose about $1 billion per year between now and 2020.","canada post"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, since 2006, the Economic Development Agency of Canada has invested more than $1 billion in all regions of Quebec. We are present throughout Quebec, with 14 regional offices, and we will continue working on developing Quebec's economy as a whole.","transfer to quebec"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, I find the question somewhat surprising from that member, who used to be a Liberal minister during the nineties when they cut almost $400 million from CBC. Aside from the hypocrisy, we in fact provide over $1 billion a year to the CBC, and we all know that there are some challenges in the media environment right now. The president has indicated that as well. We will continue, as I said before, to monitor the situation, but I am not going to respond to another question from a party that frankly does not deserve to ask a question about cuts.","cbc"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, as I have said many times, we are protecting the CBC with an investment of over $1 billion a year. We are aware that the industry is facing some challenges right now. The president of the CBC has said so himself. That being said, once again, we are providing the Crown corporation with enough funding to fulfill its mandate in English and in French across the country.","cbc"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, I greatly appreciate the opportunity to talk about the safe and accountable rail act, which our government introduced last week. I certainly do hope that the opposition members will support it full-throated because of the great things it would do. For example, it would make sure that polluters do pay in the case of an untimely accident with respect to rail. Specifically, it is important to note that it is a very comprehensive regime, with $1 billion in liability insurance backed up by a $250-million compensation fund paid by shippers and all backstopped by being able to go out and charge railroads, should it be in excess of that.","rail liability"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, as I mentioned previously, in yesterday's balanced budget, our Conservative government announced a dedicated public transit fund, for the first time ever, moving forward $1 billion every year to support municipalities with their public transit needs. Like never before, this government is getting it done.","public transit"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, our budget outlines the action we are taking to address climate change and protect our environment. We have invested significantly to support initiatives that reduce emissions and improve air quality for Canadians, and we will be investing $1 billion in transit annually. Our government has reduced emissions, lowered taxes for middle-class Canadians, and balanced the budget. What do the NDP and the Liberals want to do? They want to raise taxes for middle-class families, throw Canada back into a deficit, and pursue job-killing carbon taxes and pricing schemes. Their position is totally irresponsible.","public transit"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, as you know, the government provides the CBC with over $1 billion in taxpayer funding each and every year. It has more than enough resources to continue and complete its mandate, in both official languages, in all regions of the country","cbc"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, the health minister has been working in good haste with the provinces to develop a pan-Canadian strategy. What is really important is the research that is going to be done that the federal government is responsible for. We have $1 billion in neuroscience since 2006. We have 400 research projects investigating dementia this year alone. In partnership with the provinces and territories, we are moving. I believe it is an important issue and we need to get to some good solutions. Research is an important process forward.","health research"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, that is, again, wrong. We have added $750 million for transit, which will become $1 billion a year, only for transit. Last year, we announced a 10-year plan. We will not re-announce that every year. Probably the Liberals would do that, but we announced that last year and we will deliver it over the next 10 years. We will do our job.","public transit"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, as I have said many times, we already give CBC/Radio-Canada more than $1 billion a year to fulfill its mandate. The CRTC has the necessary authority to ensure that CBC/Radio-Canada is fulfilling its mandate in accordance with the act. We fully recognize the important role that CBC/Radio-Canada plays in minority communities and in our remote communities, and that is why we give it $1 million a year.","cbc"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, what was just said by that member is absolutely false. I might remind the member that it was in the 1990s that the Liberals, when they were in power, cut the CBC by over $400 million. On this side of the room, we are providing over $1 billion a year to the CBC. It is independent of government in its decision-making. Of course we have seen a change, a drastic change in the media environment to which no broadcaster is immune. It is adjusting and adapting. We will let it do that.","cbc"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, as I said, the G7 released a strong, unanimous statement on climate change. We have significantly increased our support for initiatives that reduce pollutants and improve air quality for Canadians. In addition, we will invest $1 billion in public transit every year. What do the Liberals and New Democrats want to do? They want to want to increase taxes for middle-class families, put Canada back into the red and implement a job-killing carbon tax.","public transit"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, as I already said, the G7 made a strong, unanimous statement on climate change. We have significantly increased our support for initiatives that reduce pollutants and improve air quality for Canadians. We will invest $1 billion in public transit every year. Our government has reduced greenhouse gas emissions, lowered taxes for middle-class families and balanced the budget.","public transit"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, I find it rich coming from a Liberal member. When the Liberals were in government, they did absolutely nothing to address climate change. Our government has taken a sensible approach. We will continue to implement a responsible sector-by-sector regulatory approach that is aligned with our major economic competitors, like the United States, to ensure Canada's economic competitiveness is protected. We have invested significantly to support initiatives that reduce emissions and improve air quality for Canadians, and we will be investing $1 billion into transit annually. We plan to reduce methane emissions from the oil and gas sector, regulate the production of chemicals and nitrogen fertilizers and regulate emissions from natural—","public transit"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, I thank the hon. member for his question. I would like to remind the House of this government's record: over the past five years, the defence budget was increased by at least $1 billion a year, and reservists and civilian staff are included in that budget. Of course, there will be operational cuts in this year's budget, but that growth and those increases remain part of this government's record and we are very proud of it.","defence"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, our government's record on national defence speaks for itself. On average, the budget for this important department has risen by $1 billion every year since 2006. Obviously, just as Canadians are tightening their belts with regard to the situation this country faced in the global downturn, and as this government moves to achieve operational efficiencies, there will be a strategic review of some costs in National Defence and they will be reported to the House in due course.","defence"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, once again, in the context of the strategic review of government spending, of course there will be cuts to the National Defence operating budget. However, for this important department, the facts speak for themselves: an additional $1 billion in spending every year since 2006 is the most important part of this government's record when it comes to National Defence.","defence"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, I would refer my colleague to the case of Saskatchewan where, after a wise investment of $242 million and a pilot project on carbon capture, the Government of Saskatchewan found that, in fact, the technology does work and announced the investment of $1 billion into a carbon capture project.","carbon capture"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, in addition to over 30% increases to transfer payments made to the provinces and territories for the delivery of health care, our government also provided additional funding, about $1 billion, for the reduction of wait times in their chosen areas. We continue to work collaboratively with the provinces and the territories to roll out the present health accord and to continue to reduce wait times, while respecting the fact that health care is an area of provincial jurisdiction.","wait times guarantee"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, our government recognizes the importance of timely access to health care and is working to support the provinces and territories in their efforts to reduce wait times in the targeted areas across the country. We have increased transfers by 6% a year, and 33% since we formed government. At the same time, we invested $1 billion to support the provinces and the territories in reducing their wait times in targeted areas. The provinces and territories continue to roll out those priorities.","wait times guarantee"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, I want to remind the House that we do have a plan to support jobs and to create some growth here in Canada. It is a plan that, unfortunately, the NDP and the Liberals voted against. In fact, they voted against things like flowing $1 billion in federal funding to provinces and territories for infrastructure in 2011-12, helping manufacturers by extending the accelerated capital cost allowance for two years, renewing EI pilot projects to help the unemployed, extending work-sharing agreements to help protect jobs, and creating a hiring credit for small business to help create jobs. They need get on side with us and help--","infrastructure"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, as I said, I came back to work as a result of government business. With respect, our government has reduced the use of government aircraft by 80% in the past three years. As the hon. member knows, aircraft are used for government business. With respect to the member himself, I am surprised that he would raise the issue of helicopters, given that his government cost taxpayers $1 billion by cancelling the EH-101 program, when it came to the Sea King helicopter replacement.","helicopter"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, if that question does not point out how out of touch the NDP members are with taxes and spending, I do not know what does. The NDP members say that CBC is grossly underfunded, but $1 billion is a lot of money. The CBC is receiving a lot of money from taxpayers. We have ensured that the CBC is accountable to taxpayers by ensuring that access to information applies to the CBC. However, we also made a commitment to Canadians that we will balance the budget by 2015, and CBC will do its part.","cbc"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, we have a plan to support jobs and growth. It is the second phase of the economic action plan. It includes the small business tax credit, which is very important, and I hope members opposite will choose to support that. The NDP and the Liberals voted against $1 billion in federal funding to the provinces and territories for infrastructure in 2011-12. The opposition also voted against the accelerated capital cost allowance, which would have continued over the past two years. I hope the voting behaviour will match the rhetoric.","infrastructure"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, this government has reduced taxes for small business in a number of ways. In fact, the CFIB's president has said repeatedly that this government has done many things to help small businesses to flourish. When we talk about creating jobs, we have a plan to support job creation and to support the fact that small businesses need to flourish by having fewer taxes. They need to be able to hire the people who can help their businesses grow. Unfortunately, the NDP votes against those measures time and time again, like flowing $1 billion in federal funding to provinces and territories for infrastructure, like the accelerated capital cost--","infrastructure"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, our government supports official languages. That is why we allocated over $1 billion to the Roadmap for Canada's Linguistic Duality. This represents an unprecedented investment meant to promote and protect bilingualism across the country. In regard to Mr. Ferguson, I have another quote. This comes from the premier of New Brunswick who said: He's outstanding, he's a leader and, quite frankly, that's one of the reasons why I came to him to become deputy minister of Finance in New Brunswick at certainly a very difficult time in the province's history,","language"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, as I mentioned, this government has done more for official languages than any other government in Canadian history, including investing over $1 billion in our road map for linguistic duality. Mr. Ferguson is the most qualified candidate for the job. We have many different people quoted as saying that and we will stand behind our candidate.","language"
"cpc2","1B","Not only was the economic action plan in its first phase effective, Mr. Speaker, but in its next phase we have the budget items that the Liberals voted against. They voted against flowing $1 billion in federal funding to provinces and territories for infrastructure 2011-12. They voted against helping manufacturers by extending the capital cost allowance for two years. They voted against renewing EI pilot projects to help the unemployed. They voted against extending work sharing and against the hiring credit for more than half a million small businesses in Canada. That is the Liberal record.","infrastructure"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, we set aside money for affordable housing a few years ago. We even added more than $1 billion to our economic action plan specifically for affordable housing. This allowed us to create 14,000 projects to improve, renovate and build housing. Unfortunately the NDP voted against all these initiatives.","affordable housing"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, the truth is that the NDP believes that money grows on trees. The truth is that the NDP voted against a $1 billion budget over five years to continue enhancing CATSA, our air security authority. We will continue to work hard to keep Canada's entire transportation system safe.","air security"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, secrecy? Speculation? It is called a budget, and leaked documents and speculation about what will be in the budget are not helpful to the military, the public service, or anyone else. I am very proud of the fact that our government has made historic investments in the Canadian Forces, over $1 billion annually. We have invested in infrastructure, personnel, equipment, and in readiness. Guess what? On each and every occasion, the member opposite and his party voted against those investments.","defence"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, the truth is that our government will ensure the safety of Canadians. We will not measure our success in this area or in any other by how much it costs. We will deliver the goods efficiently without spending more. Yesterday, the NDP announced that it wants a bailout plan for Aveos, which has wasted $1 billion, has declared bankruptcy, and is refusing to appear before a parliamentary committee to tell its side of the story. We will never agree to that.","aveos bailout"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, this government has made unprecedented investments in the Canadian Forces in recent years. In fact, since 2006, the defence budget has grown by an average of over $1 billion annually. Over the past two years, we have examined ways to implement cost-saving measures to ensure efficiency and effectiveness combined with the end of the combat missions. National defence will now return to a more normal pace of operation. Departments will be informed, unions and employees, about the specific changes and we will communicate those accordingly.","defence"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, that is not correct. That is not accurate. What we are seeing, of course, is a return to a normal tempo of operations after a very high, active tempo in Afghanistan. As a result of this, we are very much focused now on realigning our personnel and needs here in Canada, as well as focusing other resources to achieve long-term sustainability. Let us not forget that it was this government that invested over $1 billion annually in the Department of National Defence. We have seen growth across the four pillars of the Department of National Defence as a result of the unprecedented Canada first defence strategy. We will continue to see growth in the future.","defence"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, let us take an honest look at what the New Democrats are proposing. They are proposing that taxpayers fund a bailout for a company that has already wasted $1 billion, that was not prepared to testify before a parliamentary committee and that has no hope to succeed. We are not going to spend Canadians' and taxpayers' money on this type of bailout. We are instead going to continue building a strong economy in order to create jobs for everyone.","aveos bailout"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank my colleague, the member for Kildonan—St. Paul, for that great question. I would also like to thank the member for Barrie for introducing his bill, Bill C-314, regarding raising awareness for women with dense breast tissue. I hope it will result in more lives being saved. Our government has invested almost $1 billion for cancer research since we formed government in 2006. We also renewed our funding commitment over the next five years for the Canadian Partnerships Against Cancer so that it can continue to do the great work that it is doing. Thanks to this, more people are—","health research"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, that is exactly what we have done at the Department of National Defence under this government. We have seen the budget rise by over $1 billion annually. With respect to the costs that he is referring to, he is doing what he has been doing for some time now, deliberately giving misinformation, deliberately attributing things to this government that he has in fact said. I have been nothing but upfront and honest on this file. The figures that were given in October were the figures to date. The figures provided last week were the final cost figures. I will give the hon. member numbers: third party, third row.","defence"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, VIA Rail is an important part of the fabric of Canada. This government has invested almost $1 billion in VIA Rail. In the last budget, we provided $105 million. This government has invested in VIA Rail. VIA Rail needs to be nimble enough to be able to deal with different market demands and so on. However, when it comes down to it, this government supports VIA and it is going well. VIA is a great company that helps bring Canadians together. Come and support us.","rail investement"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, this government has made unprecedented investments in VIA Rail, almost $1 billion since we have come to power. We have built infrastructure and we will focus on jobs and improve on service for passengers. From time to time, VIA does review its scheduling to ensure that taxpayers and passengers get the best service for their investment. Again, I wish the NDP would look at the world view and instead of advocating for billions of dollars for Europe—","rail investement"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, I can say who is not supporting the military and it is that member and his party. While our party has spent up to $1 billion annually to replace equipment, support programs, to make our forces better and ready to respond and to support the men and women in uniform, what we get is claptrap and insults. The member from Winnipeg referred to war toys. However, C-17s brought compassionate aid to Haiti. Those are not war toys. There has been a lot of work that has been done in Afghanistan to protect those men and women's lives who are doing so much for Canada. That is an insult to our soldiers.","defence"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, you are looking at him. I will tell the House, I am so proud of the support our government has provided for our men and women in uniform, $1 billion annually to address all the needs across the Canada first defence strategy. With respect to the ombudsman, he was very supportive in his remarks that he made about our changes. He said, “we're very, very pleased to see that there's a strong commitment from the minister and the senior leadership, and as a matter of fact, to address this shortfall and to bring more care providers on the front line”. That is a glowing endorsement from the ombudsman, whom the hon. member seems to be trying to defend.","defence"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, as we said earlier this week in the House on this particular issue and with our announcement this week to ensure the continuation of the federal contaminated sites action plan, our government is making excellent progress in this regard. We have invested over $1 billion over three years to 2014 to manage this program, and we earmarked additional funding this week for sites across the country. We also have a review process, which through a scientific process, makes sure we are cleaning up those that are most affected first. We are halfway through that plan and we are making good progress.","contaminated sites"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, I find it very interesting that they target the hon. minister. They accuse him of not jet-setting across the country enough. According to the NDP, this minister spends too much time reaching out to his constituents in Labrador. This party understands we can never spend too much time with the good people of Labrador and that is precisely why he knows that the rural people of this country do not want a $1 billion long gun registry. Maybe if the member spent more time in his own riding, he would know that too.","long gun registry"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, my colleague is absolutely right. Our government is playing a leadership role. Unlike the previous government that balanced the books on the backs of the provinces and the territories, we are increasing the health transfers to historic levels of nearly $40 billion by the end of the decade. In fact, the Canadian Institute for Health Information found that the provinces were spending less than our 6% annual increases. These numbers show that the federal share of health care spending is increasing. We are also the single largest investor in Canada for health science and research, investing $1 billion per year in health research and innovation.","health research"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, to enable the provinces and the territories to address their priorities, our government has introduced a long-term stable funding increase up to $40 billion by the end of the decade. I also want to mention the other investments that we are making: $1 billion in health research resulting in over 10,000 research projects across Canada; a debt forgiveness program for doctors and nurses; the establishment of a mental health commission of Canada; Canadian partnerships against cancer; Canadian Institutes of Health Research; improving the food safety system; as well as medical records. The list goes on.","health research"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, that is an excellent question. First of all, Canadian companies, and Canadians in general, are subject to some of the strictest environmental laws in the world when it comes to maintaining their operations, right from their environmental assessments through to their operations and the mitigation of their sites at the end of the day. Our government has invested well over $1 billion in our federal contaminated sites action plan. We will continue to make those investments, but will also continue to carry forward our prioritization plan as a part of it, getting the most toxic sites cleaned up first and working through the list from there.","contaminated sites"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, we are doing more to help unemployed workers find jobs. That is the best thing we can do for them. Unfortunately, Service Canada had to stop close to $1 billion in ineligible payments last year. What is more, hundreds of millions of dollars are connected to fraud. That is unacceptable. Stealing from unemployed workers is serious. That is why we must safeguard the integrity of the system.","employment insurance"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, our government is making investments with the provinces and territories by increasing health care transfers to $40 billion at the end of the decade. We are also making significant investments in health research. At the moment, we are funding about 10,000 research projects across the country, and we have increased research in Canada to $1 billion per year.","health research"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, we always try to appoint qualified people to these positions, and we clarify that they must be bilingual. With our roadmap for official languages we have invested $1 billion over five years and have had good success. According to Marie-France Kenny, “The Minister of Canadian Heritage [and the government] are to be commended for their commitment and their efforts to achieve this result [for the official languages].” Our approach is getting results and we have policies. We will continue to protect both official languages in the House of Commons and across Canada.","language"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, what the member is saying is incorrect. Our government has invested over $1 billion in VIA Rail to renovate trains, improve accessibility and upgrade tracks and stations. These are important investments that the NDP voted against. The issue with the estimates refers to a single investment in infrastructure that has been completed. Things are going well at VIA Rail.","rail investement"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, again, the member has his facts completely wrong. Since this government has taken office, we have invested almost $1 billion in VIA Rail for new cars so that they could be made accessible. We have invested in rail track and the corridor between Montreal, Ottawa and Toronto. The frequency of rail service has increased, and that is due to the investments we have made. The rail service is better than it has ever been and that is thanks to this government.","rail investement"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, I reject the premise of that member's question, especially coming from a Liberal. It is very ironic that a Liberal would complain about mobility issues when it was the Liberal Party that bought, on behalf of VIA, a whole bunch of rail cars that were not wheelchair accessible. This government has invested over $1 billion to not only make the cars accessible but to improve VIA service throughout Canada. In fact, frequency between major cities has increased. VIA is an arm's-length corporation and it does make decisions for its day-to-day operations. However, the fact is that some trains run empty, and that is not ecologically friendly.","rail investement"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, now we have a little window into the NDP member's thinking. He says that constituents in my community are not “real constituents”. He would know a little better about the real people on the ground if he actually listened to the people to whom he made the promise that he would scrap the $1 billion long gun registry, the real constituents he looked in the eye election after election, the hard-working hunters and farmers who have upheld the generations-long tradition of hunting and trapping that go back to our aboriginal people. Those are the real people of Canada to whom he should be listening.","long gun registry"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, our government will vigorously lobby against this proposal. Our government sees red tape for businesses and Canadians at the border. This is not the time to have this kind of proposal in force. That is very important because the two countries do over $1 billion in trade of goods and services every day. We must continue in that direction and promote free trade. That is what we are going to do.","canada-us trade"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, CBC Radio-Canada receives almost $1 billion in taxpayer funding. It has committed to undertaking its plan for 2015, and it will continue to provide services in all regions of the country and in both official languages.","cbc"
"cpc2","1B","Again, Mr. Speaker, CBC Radio-Canada receives almost $1 billion worth of taxpayer contributions each year. The president of the CBC has continued to say that it will continue with its plan for 2015. That will be to provide services in both official languages in all regions of the country.","cbc"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, the member has correctly pointed out that people do not take the train as much as they did in the 1950s or 1940s. I am glad that is evident to him. I also hoped he would have supported the $1-billion of investment we put into VIA, but he did not. Ridership continues to go down because there are alternative methods of transportation, like automobile, bus and airplane. We are making the best possible rail service, but we are not going to have taxpayers wasting money on trains that do not have people in them.","rail investement"
"cpc2","1B","Mr. Speaker, in fact, this government has invested over $1 billion in passenger rail. We have renovated stations, upgraded trains and improved accessibility, while creating jobs for Canadians. This government is committed to quality rail service that is not a burden on the taxpayer. Interestingly, all the investments we made, the opposition parties and the member voted against.","rail investement"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, we all know why the Prime Minister is not here today. He is in Europe to secure access to 500 million new consumers for our businesses. That would be 500 million new customers for Canadian businesses. That means 80,000 jobs for Canadians and a $1,000 increase in average family income. This is a government that is on the side of workers and consumers.","trade agreement"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, once again, the Leader of the Opposition attacks our Prime Minister for travelling abroad to conclude the biggest trade agreement since NAFTA. The NDP would simply like to build a big brick wall around Canada, a brick wall that would keep out 80,000 jobs, would keep away 500 million customers, would keep away $1,000 in increased income for the average family. The Conservative Party supports free trade; the NDP supports no trade, and the Liberals support the drug trade.","trade agreement"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, all three pillars of supply management are protected, but more than that, farmers from across Canada, who are the best in the world, will now have access to over half a billion new hungry customers. That is the advantage of the free trade agreement the Prime Minister is working on. It means we will be creating 80,000 new jobs for Canadians, $12 billion in additional GDP; that is $1,000 for every family in this country, each and every year. The NDP wants to build a big brick wall around Canada. We want to build a bridge to jobs.","trade agreement"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, less than 24 hours since the deal was actually announced, the NDP has already succeeded in being on both sides of the issue. It is really a rhetorical game of acrobatics. The NDP should really be proud of that kind of manoeuvre. On this side of the House, our position has always been clear: 80,000 net new jobs, half a billion new customers for Canadian job creators, $1,000 in additional income for the average family of four in this country. This is a good deal, it is the right thing to do, and we are proud of the Prime Minister for delivering it.","trade agreement"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank my hon. colleague for that terrific question. Once CETA is fully implemented, approximately 99% of EU tariff lines will be duty free. That includes 100% of non-agricultural lines and over 95% of agricultural tariff lines. It is truly a game changer for Canada: prices down for consumers and employment up, with 80,000 net new jobs. At the end of the day, there will be a $1,000 net benefit to families like those in Lambton—Kent—Middlesex.","trade agreement"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, last Friday we made history. Our Prime Minister reached an agreement with the EU on the most comprehensive trade deal Canada has ever signed. It will boost Canada's economy by $12 billion a year, the equivalent of creating 80,000 new jobs or adding $1,000 to the average Canadian family's income every year. It means better priced European goods. It means more choice for Canadian consumers. It gives businesses in every sector and region of our country access to a consumer market of 500 million people. This deal is historic for our government. It is historic for Canada. It is a great deal for Canada.","trade agreement"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the Canada-European Union trade agreement is great for job creation and families across the country. That is why the trade minister is in Halifax today talking about the benefits to the seafood, agriculture and forestry and shipping sectors, and that is why in the last few days the Conference Board of Canada, the Chamber of Commerce and others have confirmed that prices will go down for families and employment will go up. The member for New Brunswick Southwest can assure families in New Brunswick that our government has secured an agreement that is tremendous for Atlantic Canada and will secure a $1,000 net benefit for families once implemented.","trade agreement"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, if the member has any information regarding specific employers that have laid off Canadians to replace them with temporary foreign workers, we would like that to be reported. Here are some of the changes we have made. On top of a major fee increase from $250 to $1,000 per application, we have ensured that employers, for example, with 10 or more employees applying for a new LMIA are subject to a cap of 10% on the proportion of their workforce. There are a number of changes that we have made. The New Democrats do not support the changes. They are all over the map when it comes to temporary foreign workers. We will not trust them on this one.","temporary foreign workers"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, I can commit to it because we have already done it with the quadrupling of the number of inspectors, funded by the new $1,000 application fee. However, the member says the New Democrats called for sanctions. Why, then, did the NDP vote this spring against the bill that gave us the legislative power to impose new sanctions? Why did the leader of her party say that the program “morphed into having everybody in McDonald's or Tim Hortons coming from another country”, when in fact 96% of the people who work in those franchises are Canadians? Who are these people from other countries that he sees?","temporary foreign workers"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to report that today we found out that the new trade commissioner for the European Union, Cecilia Malmström, just said that the CETA, the trade agreement with the EU, is very good for the European Union and that the dispute settlement provisions in the agreement address the EU's concerns relating to transparency and its ability to regulate in the public interest. This agreement is going to add over 80,000 new jobs to the Canadian economy. That is equivalent to $1,000 in additional income for the average Canadian family every year. That is good news.","trade agreement"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, as we said many times before, we will work very closely with the provinces and territories to address the issues that the member raises. We are very pleased that this last week we were able to celebrate the conclusion of negotiations and the release of the final text of the treaty. This trade agreement is expected to increase economic activity in Canada by $12 billion. That is the equivalent of 80,000 new Canadian jobs and $1,000 for each Canadian family in additional income every year. This is a very good deal for Canada.","trade agreement"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, our government is moving forward with important measures to create jobs. For example, the bill creates jobs and opportunities across Canada through the new small business job credit. The budget implementation bill makes life more affordable for Canadian families by doubling the children's fitness tax credit to $1,000 and making it refundable, and ending pay-to-pay billing practices by telecommunications companies. I urge the opposition to support this important legislation.","child/family tax credit"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, our government's top priority, as I said, is creating jobs, economic growth, and long-term prosperity. The budget implementation bill would make life more affordable for Canadian families by doubling the children's fitness credit to $1,000 and making it refundable, ending pay-to-pay billing practices by telecommunications companies, strengthening Canada's intellectual property regime to promote job creation, and improving conditions for business investment and access to international markets by reducing costs and red tape, and there is a lot more.",""
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, our government is focused on what matters most to Canadians: jobs and economic growth. More than 1.1 million net new jobs have been created since the depths of the recession, over 80% full-time, nearly 80% in the private sector. We are taking action in our budget implementation plan to create opportunities right across the country for small businesses, large businesses, and employees. We are making life more affordable for Canadian families by doubling the children's tax credit to $1,000. We are ending pay-to-pay billing practices and we are doing a great deal more.","child/family tax credit"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, I will encourage the leader of the opposition to stay tuned. There will be very good announcements coming shortly. Income splitting is good policy for Canadians. It is good policy for Canadian seniors. It will be good policy for Canadian families. Our government is also making life more affordable for Canadian families by doubling the children's fitness tax credit to $1,000 and then making it refundable. Shamefully, the New Democratic Party and the Liberal Party vote against each one of these measures, vote against every tax cut that will put money into the pockets of Canadians.","child/family tax credit"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank the member for Edmonton—Leduc for the excellent and hard work that he does on the finance committee. The new tax cuts will help all Canadian families prosper. We are increasing the universal child care benefit for children under age six. We are expanding it to children aged six to 17. We are increasing the child care expense deduction dollar limits by $1,000. Thanks to our government's tax cuts, two-thirds of the benefits flow to low-and middle-income families. The Liberal leader does not understand the basics of our policy. There are just too many tax savings for him to count.","child/family tax credit"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the opposite is true. In fact, the remarkable support for families announced by our Prime Minister last week will deliver $1,500 in benefits to a single parent on an income of $30,000 and will deliver $1,000 in benefits to a single parent with a $50,000 income. This is the only plan being proposed in this Parliament that benefits 100% of families with children, over four million Canadian families, with a focus on low and medium income families. It is why we have now seen child poverty at its lowest level in Canadian history. The Liberals would take this back. They are wrong.","child/family tax credit"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, that member is completely wrong, and I understand why the Liberals do not want Canadians to know about the fantastic benefits they will be receiving through our family tax cut as well as our universal childcare benefit expansion. A single parent with two children, earning $30,000, will receive over $1,500 per year under our plan. A single parent making $50,000, with two kids, will see almost $1,000 in relief and benefits. Close to two million families, half the families with children, will receive direct benefits. Again, the Liberals do not like that, because they want to keep taxes high. They do not want money in the pockets of families.","child/family tax credit"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, actually every single Canadian family with children under age 18 will benefit from our announcements that we announced a week ago. Under our family tax cuts, close to two million families will benefit, as well as the increase to the universal child care benefit. Another really good feature of what we have announced is the expansion of the amount that individuals and families can claim for child care expenses. We have increased that by $1,000 in every one of the categories. We know that the NDP and Liberals would end income-splitting for families. We know they would take away the universal child care benefit. Families can only count on this government to keep money in their pockets.","child/family tax credit"
"cpc3","1K","In fact, Mr. Speaker, through our record transfers to the provinces, the Canada social transfer, we have helped to lead to the creation of even more daycare spaces. The family tax cut plan involves an increase of $1,000 in the child care tax credit. However, the NDP plan on child care is this. It wants to tax 100% of families with kids in order to provide a subsidy through union-run daycare for 10% of families. Our approach is to recognize the choices made by all parents, all families, all four million of them, not just 10% of them.","child/family tax credit"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, only the NDP could refer to a massive tax benefit for working Canadian families as a binge, a benefit that would provide up to $2,000 of direct tax relief for families, treating families as an economic unit, that would increase the universal child care benefit provided to children between the ages of 7 and 18 from $1,000 to $1,700 a year. Together these constitute a total net benefit of over $1,200 for the average family. Four million families, 100% of families with kids, are going to benefit from this government's package.","child/family tax credit"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, first of all, let me join all of our colleagues in welcoming the hon. member for Whitby—Oshawa to the House of Commons. We know that the member was elected by the hard-working voters of Whitby—Oshawa in part to deliver the family tax cut, the tax cut that will benefit 100% of Canadian families with kids under the age of 18. Two-thirds of its benefits will go to low- and modest-income families. In fact, did members know that a single parent making $50,000 with two kids will see $1,000 in relief and benefits, and families earning less than $30,000 will see $1,200 in benefits—","child/family tax credit"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the stellar hon. member for Prince George—Peace River for his hard work on lowering taxes for Canadian families across this country. We are delivering on our promise to balance the budget, and now we are in the position to make targeted tax cuts for Canadian families so they can balance theirs. The majority of these benefits will go to low- and middle-income class Canadian families. For example, a single parent making $50,000 a year with two children would get about $1,000 in benefits from these tax cuts. The Liberal plan is to take these tax cuts out of the pockets of Canadian families and use them to hire bureaucrats—","child/family tax credit"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, job creation, lower taxes, and free trade were key elements of our government's economy-focused agenda this year. We built on our record of creating over 1.2 million net new jobs. We doubled the children's fitness tax credit to $1,000. We expanded the universal child care benefit to $160, up from $100 a month. We delivered free trade with South Korea and Honduras, and a massive new trade deal with Europe. We moved to tackle crime, protect victims, support veterans, strengthen the value of Canadian citizenship, cut red tape, and fight terrorism. Canadians can see clearly that running this country is a serious job, one that requires strong leadership.","child/family tax credit"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, we all agree that an active, healthy lifestyle is good for people of all ages. That is why we have great organizations like Participaction, KidSport, Special Olympics, Sport for Life and Canadian Tire's Jumpstart that we fund. This is why I am proud the Prime Minister doubled up the fitness tax credit to $1,000. Also the universal child care benefit has been increased. My hope is that parents put those words “sports for the kids” so kids can get involved in sports and physical activity, and excel in education as well.","child/family tax credit"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, I thank the member for his strong support for family tax fairness, for lower taxes. We are delivering on that to 100% of families with children under the age of 18, with an average benefit of over $1,100. This means, for example, that a single mom with two kids making $50,000 will receive $1,000 in relief and benefits. Families earning less than $30,000, low-income families, will receive an average benefit of $1,200. All of those benefits would be taken away by the opposition parties if they had their choice. We will not let them do that. Canadian taxpayers will support more support for families. That equals a stronger economy and more jobs.","child/family tax credit"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, as the member will recall, when we took office we started to reverse the legacy of transfer payment cuts left behind by the Liberals, some $50 billion in cuts. We started to reverse that, and the money that was sent to our provincial partners created in excess of 260,000 child care spaces. We are going even further by introducing the universal child care benefit, providing families with $100. That is now increasing to $160 for children under the age of six, but going even a step further, $60 for those kids who are between 6 and 17. We have increased the deduction for child care expenses by $1,000.","child/family tax credit"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, our public service is like all of our Canadian families, and under our plan 100% of Canadian families would benefit from the announcements we have made. In fact, on average, Canadians would have an additional $1,200 in their pockets because of the changes we have introduced. I note, of course, that the NDP and the Liberals would take away that benefit. They would take the $160 a month that families are already getting per child under six. They would take away the $60 a month. They would probably reverse the $1,000 increase in child deductions that we have put in place. Canadians families understand that when it comes to protecting them and their families, they can count on—","child/family tax credit"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the member's question is absolutely false. To quote a headline right out of the New York Times, “Canadian median incomes among the highest in the world”. That was the same report in which they found that, for the first time, the Canadian middle class is actually wealthier than the American middle class, a situation that was reversed under the previous Liberal government. Our low-tax plan for families will help 100% of families with kids, providing on average of $1,000 per household. The only plan the Liberal Party has is to raise taxes on middle-class families, which will drive jobs down and poverty up.","child/family tax credit"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, anyone whose leader thinks that budgets balance themselves could never make sense of the basic numbers that Canadian households calculate every single day. Let us talk about those numbers. We brought forward a family tax cut and an enhanced universal child care benefit that will help 100% of families with kids. On average, those families will have an extra $1,000 in their pockets, starting right now. In fact, as we speak, Canadians are getting ready to fill out their tax forms to enjoy the benefits of the family tax cut. That tax cut is in place. The Liberals would raise taxes. We will not let them.","child/family tax credit"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the best possible stimulus for our economy is to put thousands of dollars back in the pockets of everyday families with kids, and that is exactly what we did with our family tax cut and benefits, which will benefit 100% of families with kids by over $1,000 per family. The Liberals have announced that they will vote against this money, that they will take it away and that they will raise taxes on families. We know that will not only hurt the middle class, but it will kill thousands of jobs and send shockwaves through our community. That is what the Liberals would do. We will not let them.","child/family tax credit"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, I think Canadians are always amused when the Liberal Party talks about government funding for advertising. We are still looking for the missing $40 million from over there. What our advertising will tell Canadians is that they are entitled to claim $1,000 for the children's fitness tax credit to help soccer moms and hockey dads, that they will get an increased universal child care benefit of almost $2,000 for kids under 6 and $720 for kids 6 through 17, and that income splitting for families and pensioners will put money directly into the pockets of the middle class. The Liberals do not want people to know about it because they would take that money away.","child/family tax credit"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, in keeping with your suggestion, I will do just that. Talking about taxpayers not getting value for their money, I wonder what the taxpayers of Scarborough Southwest think about their member sending over $140,000 to an illegal office in Montreal, that the member for Davenport sent over $1,000 to that same illegal office, that the member for Beaches—East York did the same thing, that the former member for Trinity—Spadina did the same thing. Sixty-eight members of the NDP caucus sent millions of dollars to an illegal office and they should pay it back.","ndp satellite offices"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Finance said no such thing, but it is interesting to hear a member defending the Liberal economic record that he actually got elected to the House opposing. Here is something else, while he is on his feet, he can try to defend. The Liberal leader said yesterday, “We're looking at an expansion and a mandatory expansion of the CPP of the type that...Kathleen Wynne put forward in Ontario”. That is a $1,000 pay cut for every Ontario worker who is earning $60,000 a year. That is just from their own pockets, in addition to that paid by their employers. Canadians did not ask for that. They do not want it and they will never accept it.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Finance said no such thing. He said the contrary. He was talking about Greece, where liberal policies resulted in job cuts, higher taxes, and reduced services for the public. It is quite the opposite here in Canada, where we have a balanced budget. Canadians do not want the tax hikes recently proposed by the leader of the Liberal Party: $1,000 out of the pocket of every employee who earns only $60,000 a year. Canadians want more money in their pockets, not less, like the leader of the Liberal Party is proposing.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, both the New Democratic Party and the Liberal Party would dramatically hike payroll taxes. In fact, the Liberal leader said yesterday, “We’re looking at an expansion and a mandatory expansion of the CPP of the type that Kathleen Wynne put forward in Ontario”. For someone who earns $60,000 a year, that is an extra $1,000 tax hike. While we are letting middle-class Canadians keep more of their money in their pockets, that party would take more out.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, through the tax-free savings account, the increase in the guaranteed income supplement, and other low-tax measures, we have put more money in the pockets of seniors, but the Liberals and NDP would do the opposite. I quote the Liberal leader, who said that he supports “a mandatory expansion of the CPP of the type that Kathleen Wynne put forward in Ontario”. That means a $1,000 tax increase for a worker earning only $60,000 a year. The small business that employs that worker would have to pay the same tax, which would kill jobs. We will oppose the Liberal leader's proposed tax increase on workers.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, let us be clear. Canadians know that the New Democratic Party and the Liberal Party stand for higher taxes. Let me remind members what the Liberal leader said yesterday. He said, “We’re looking at an expansion and a mandatory expansion of the CPP of the type that Kathleen Wynne put forward in Ontario”. Again, for someone who is earning $60,000 a year, that is an extra $1,000 tax hike. While we are letting middle-class Canadians choose how they spend and save their money, Liberals would raise taxes. That is their policy.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, yes, it is true. The Liberal leader said yesterday: “We're looking at an expansion and a mandatory expansion of the CPP of the type that Kathleen Wynne put forward in Ontario”. For someone earning $60,000 a year, the Liberal leader's policy is an extra $1,000 tax hike. A middle-class family with two income earners would be paying thousands of dollars extra in taxes. While we are letting Canadians keep more of their money and make the decisions on how they would spend and how they would save for their retirement, the Liberal policy is clearly one of taking more money out of the pockets of Canadians.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, I thank that member for his very hard work on behalf of taxpayers across Canada. We disagree with the statement of the Liberal leader yesterday, who said that he supports “...a mandatory expansion of the CPP of the type that...Kathleen Wynne put forward in Ontario”. That plan would raise taxes by $1,000 on every worker earning $60,000 a year. We reject that. Our approach is a low-tax plan for a secure retirement. That is why we brought in the tax-free savings accounts for 11 million hard-working Canadians.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, since coming to office, our government has had one of the best job-creation records in the G7, and we are leading in economic growth. While we are focused on creating jobs, the Liberals are pushing a high-tax, high-debt agenda that will threaten jobs and set working families back. Their leader even said, “We’re looking at an expansion and a mandatory expansion of the CPP of the type that Kathleen Wynne put forward in Ontario”. For people earning $60,000, that means an extra $1,000 of tax that they will have to pay each year.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Finance said no such thing. As I said, he was talking about the situation in European countries like Greece and France. Let me tell members what we are doing in Canada. While we are letting middle-class Canadians choose how they want to spend and save their money, the Liberals and the NDP want to raise payroll taxes. The Liberal leader announced that he would dramatically hike payroll taxes on middle-class Canadians. He even said, “We’re looking at an expansion and a mandatory expansion of the CPP of the type that Kathleen Wynne put forward in Ontario”. For people earning $60,000, that means an extra $1,000 in taxes that they will have to pay each year.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, our Conservative government is focused on what matters to Canadians: helping families make ends meet by lowering taxes and protecting and creating jobs. Since coming to office, our government has had one of the best job creation records in the G7, and we are leading in economic growth. While we are focused on creating jobs, the Liberal leader's only solution is raising taxes. Members do not have to take my word for it, this is what he said, “We're looking at an expansion and a mandatory expansion of the CPP of the type that Kathleen Wynne put forward in Ontario”. For people earning $60,000, that means an extra $1,000 in taxes every year that they will have to pay under his scheme.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, let us be clear. Last week, the Liberal leader said “We're looking at an expansion and a mandatory expansion of the CPP of the type that...Kathleen Wynne put forward in Ontario”. For someone earning $60,000 a year, the Liberal leader's policy is a $1,000 tax hike, $1,000 coming out of their pocket. We are letting middle-class Canadians choose how they spend and save their money. The Liberal leader's only solution is a tax hike.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, it is very clear that the Liberals would now like to distance themselves from what their leader said. Their leader was very clear when he said last week “We're looking at an expansion and a mandatory expansion of the CPP of the type that...Kathleen Wynne put forward in Ontario”. We know that the Liberal Party believes it should get rid of the universal child care benefit, cancel income splitting, and certainly income splitting for seniors, and claw back the tax-free savings account. For someone earning $60,000 a year, a $1,000 tax hike is the response and the answer that the Liberal Party has. We believe in choice for Canadians. Canadians know they are better off—","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, I thank the member for Don Valley West for the question. He is correct. The Liberal leader said last week, “We're looking at an expansion and a mandatory expansion of the CPP of the type that Kathleen Wynne put forward in Ontario.” We have already said that for someone earning $60,000, that is an extra tax hike of $1,000. A middle-class family with two incomes would be paying thousands of dollars. While we are letting middle-class Canadians choose how they spend and save their money, the Liberal and the New Democrat plans are simply another tax hike.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, last week the Liberal leader said, “We’re looking at an expansion and a mandatory expansion of the CPP of the type that Kathleen Wynne put forward in Ontario.” The Kathleen Wynne plan is the federal Liberal plan. The numbers that the Ontario government has published suggest that a worker earning just $60,000 a year would face a $1,000 pay cut, but his employer, a small business, would also have to match that $1,000 tax increase, which according to the CFIB would lead to layoffs and further wage cuts. This would send reverberations throughout the entire economy. That is why we will never support it.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, we know what the Liberal policy is on the Canada pension plan. Their leader was very clear. He said: We're looking at an expansion and a mandatory expansion of the CPP of the type that [Premier] Kathleen Wynne put forward in Ontario. For someone who earns $60,000 a year, the Liberal policy is a massive tax hike. While we are letting middle-class Canadians choose how they spend and save their money, the Liberal leader's only solution is raising taxes. A $1,000 tax increase Canadians do not--","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Again, Mr. Speaker, the Liberal leader does not have a stepping stone; he has a springboard, a springboard to higher taxes. He was very clear. He said what the Liberal Party is looking for is “an expansion and a mandatory expansion of the CPP of the type that [Premier] Kathleen Wynne put forward in Ontario”. Again, that means, for the income earner earning $60,000 a year, a $1,000 tax hike. For a two-income family, it means thousands of dollars in extra taxes. The Liberal leader's only solution is raising taxes.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, while we are helping middle-class Canadians choose how they spend and save their money, the only solution of the opposition members is to raise taxes. It is true. The Liberal leader said last week “We're looking at an expansion and a mandatory expansion of the CPP of the type that...Kathleen Wynne put forward in Ontario”. For someone earning $60,000 a year, the Liberal leader's tax hike would mean $1,000 less in take-home pay. A middle-class family with two incomes would pay thousands of dollars extra in taxes. Canadians know they are better off with this Conservative government.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, I thank that member for her hard work on behalf of auto workers. I am happy to report that according DesRosiers Automotive Consultants, “The Canadian new vehicle market remains to be on track for the bestselling year ever”. Our low-tax plan is working. However, the Liberals are planning a new tax that will throw auto workers out of a job. The Windsor Star stated: The local Chamber of Commerce and auto sector companies are warning Premier Kathleen Wynne a new provincial plan could lead to layoffs or cutbacks in Windsor's fragile auto sector. The Liberal leader has endorsed that proposed payroll tax of $1,000 for every worker. We will fight to stop it.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the Liberals have just one plan for the economy, and that is to raise taxes. Recently, the Liberal leader announced that he was looking at a tax increase like the one proposed by Kathleen Wynne, the Premier of Ontario. That would cost every worker who is earning $60,000 a year $1,000, and the small and medium-sized businesses that hire those workers would have to pay the same tax. That will kill jobs and cost families a lot of money. We are doing the opposite by lowering taxes.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the NDP and the Liberals have one plan for the economy, that is to raise taxes. They both now support Kathleen Wynne's Liberal plan to impose a $1,000 payroll tax on every worker who earns $60,000 a year, and the small business that employs that worker would also have to pay $1,000. That will kill jobs and destabilize our economy. Our low-tax plan is working. We have created 1.2 million net new jobs, 80% of which are full time, and two-thirds in high-wage sectors. Just this week, StatsCan indicated that Canadians in every income bracket have seen their net worth dramatically rise, including a 38% increase in the net worth of Canadians in the lowest 20%.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, in this fragile global economy, the last thing we need is a tax increase, but that is exactly what the Liberals and the NDP propose. They want a new $1,000 payroll tax on every worker earning $60,000 a year. Small businesses would be forced to pay that same $1,000. That would kill jobs, according to the Canadian Federation of Independent Business. Our low-tax plan has created 1.2 million net new jobs. This week, Stats Canada confirmed that Canadians are enjoying higher net worth than ever before.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the Liberals want the government to bring in Kathleen Wynne's new payroll tax. That would be the only new plan they put forward. They want the average worker who earns $60,000 a year to pay a brand new $1,000 tax, and the employer would be forced to match it. That would force a lot of employers to cut wages and lay people off. We are going to do the opposite. We have cut taxes for every Canadian. We just brought in a family tax cut and benefits, which help 100% of households with kids. We are putting money directly in the pockets of Canadians.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, while both the NDP and Liberal Party have announced they support Kathleen Wynne's plan to bring in a $1,000 payroll tax on the average worker in Canada, we have done exactly the opposite. Our low-tax plan is not only creating jobs, it is raising the net worth of the average Canadian family. In fact, the bottom 20% of income earners have seen their net worth increase by 38% since 1999. The overwhelming majority of our tax-relief measures have gone directly into the pockets of modest- and middle-income families. We are lifting people up by rewarding their hard work with low taxes.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, under the strong leadership of our Prime Minister, a typical family of four will save a whopping $6,600 this year, but the Liberals and the NDP want to take that money out of their pockets. They want to raise taxes. The Liberal leader wants to impose a mandatory $1,000-a-year job-killing payroll tax hike on middle-class workers. We will not let the Liberals get away with their reckless high-tax, high-spend agenda. Canadians know they are better off with this Conservative government.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, our government, of course, continues on its commitment to help out families, not just by lowering the costs they pay for products and services but, most important, by lowering taxes that they are required to pay to the government and providing more money in their pockets to help them make ends meet. We think that is one of the most meaningful things we can do as a government: help Canadians succeed and meet their aspirations and dreams for a brighter future. This afternoon will be dedicated to today’s NDP’s opposition day motion. Tomorrow, we will wrap up the third reading debate on Bill S-6, the Yukon and Nunavut regulatory improvement act. This will be the sixth day of debate for that particular piece of legislation, which would support economic development north of 60 while ensuring the preservation of the environment. Monday shall be the eighth allotted day when we will debate another NDP opposition day motion. Regrettably, I have noticed that the NDP leader has never taken me up on my suggestion that he allow the House an extended debate on one of their proposals, under Standing Order 81(16)(a). As a result, next week, we will have the 88th time-allocated opposition day of this Parliament. That evening, as required by the Standing Orders, we will debate the main estimates. Then, we will consider an appropriations bill, the supplementary estimates, followed by a second appropriations bill. Tuesday morning, we will consider Bill S-2, the incorporation by reference in regulations act, at report stage. This legislation will help streamline regulations and ensure that important safety rules keep up with evolving developments and standards. In the afternoon, we will take up Bill C-59, economic action plan 2015, No. 1, at report stage, in anticipation that it will be reported back to the House tomorrow. This package of essential measures—such as the family tax cut, enhancements to the universal child care benefit, and a reduction to the small business income tax—is an important priority for our Conservative government and I think, more important, a priority for Canadian families. Since the budget was delivered this spring, however, the Liberal leader has let us and all Canadians in on his economic plans. First, we learned he thinks that “benefiting every single family is not...fair”. Then, he topped it off when he told Canadians that the Liberals are looking at a mandatory expansion of the Canada pension plan. That would mean a $1,000 tax hike for a typical earner and for that earner's employer, and that $1,000 tax increase on two sides would be a significant potential impairment and drag on our economy. Certainly, it would be a huge drag on the personal finances of Canadian families. On Wednesday, we will return to Bill C-59, if additional time is needed. Thursday morning, we will consider Bill C-35, which is the justice for animals in service act, Quanto's law, at report stage and, ideally, third reading. This is an important bill, which would ensure appropriate criminal penalties for killing or harming police animals and other service animals—dogs, horses, and so on—and speedy consideration of it would be favourable because that would allow it to pass and make it to the Senate for its consideration this spring. I would remind the House the bill has already received four days of second reading debate and was in the justice committee for over five months. That afternoon, we will again consider Bill S-2, and I hope it will be at third reading. Next Friday, we will return to Bill S-7, the zero tolerance for barbaric cultural practices act, at report stage. The House will recall that we are debating the opposition's amendments to gut the bill of its entire contents—contents that demonstrate our Conservative government's commitment to end violence against women and girls.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the Liberals admit that they would get rid of the universal child care benefit, that they would cancel income splitting, that they would get rid of the child tax benefit, and that after they do all of those things, they would still come at least $2 billion short. That $2-billion hole will have to be put on the backs of taxpayers through yet higher taxes. Then last week, the Liberal leader announced that he would impose a $1,000 payroll tax hike on every single worker earning $60,000 and on the small businesses that employ them. We will never take that approach. We will continue to lower taxes.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the Liberals have now admitted that they support Kathleen Wynne's payroll tax. That would raise taxes by at least $1,000 on every single worker, regardless of their income, and it would raise equal amounts of taxes on the small businesses that employ those workers. Those businesses tell us that they would be forced to cut wages and lay people off to pay this new Liberal tax. We are taking the opposite approach. We have cut taxes for small businesses that create jobs, and we have lowered taxes for families to help them get ahead.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, we are informing parents about the benefits that we are providing them. In fact, the Prime Minister just increased the universal child care benefit by nearly $2,000 for each child under 6 and $720 for each child 6 through 17. The Liberals want to take that benefit away from families. In the meantime, the Liberal leader just announced that he wants to add an extra $1,000 to every worker's tax bill through a pension scheme proposed by Kathleen Wynne, in Ontario. We are against that idea and we will keep reducing taxes.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, we communicate with Canadians about the benefits that the government is providing. For example, the Prime Minister has recently increased the universal child care benefit to almost $2,000 a year for each child under 6 and $720 for each child 6 through 17. The Liberals have not only announced that they would take the universal child care benefit away, but just last week the Liberal leader announced a plan to increase taxes by $1,000 on every worker who earns $60,000. The small business employing that worker would also have to pay the same $1,000 payroll tax. That will kill jobs and set families back, and that is why we do not support it.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, last week, the Liberal leader said, “We are looking at an expansion and a mandatory expansion of the CPP of the type that Kathleen Wynne put forward in Ontario”. This would mean a new $1,000 payroll tax on every middle-class worker and the small business that employs them. According to the Canadian Federation of Independent Business, that would kill jobs and force businesses to cut wages. Our plan, by contrast, is a low-tax plan for a secure retirement. By providing tax-free savings accounts, lower taxes for families, we allow Canadians to set aside more money and grow it, tax free, for a brighter retirement.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the Liberals have confirmed that they want to impose a new $1,000 tax on every worker who earns $60,000 a year. Small and medium-sized businesses, which employ these workers, will also have to pay this $1,000 tax for each employee. Business owners are telling us that this will kill jobs and hurt Canadian families. We oppose the new tax proposed by the Liberals.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the Liberal Party has confirmed that it wants to impose Kathleen Wynne's proposal for a new payroll tax on Canadians. According to the Wynne Liberal government, this would be about $1,000 in additional taxes for every single worker earning $60,000 a year. Worse yet, the small business employing that worker would have to match that new tax. The Canadian Federation of Independent Business says that businesses would lay people off and cut wages, and some would even close their doors.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, we already have that, but that is not what the Liberals are proposing. They are proposing a new $1,000 payroll tax on every single worker in Canada. They want to take the Kathleen Wynne plan, which again, is $1,000 in new taxes for the average worker earning $60,000 a year. Then, they say they will invest that in so-called infrastructure programs. We do not want the Canadian people to have their pension plan raided to pay for Liberal pork-barrel politics and pay higher job-killing taxes.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, that allegation is absolutely nonsense. Since the day we were elected, our government has consistently lowered taxes and created new voluntary options for Canadians to save, like the tax-free savings account, but the Liberal leader revealed that he will fund infrastructure projects with “alternative sources of capital, such as pension funds”, and he is going to do that while forcing Canadians to take a $1,000 pay cut. On behalf of all retirees and those soon to be retirees, I would respectfully say to the Liberal leader, “keep your hands off our pension funds”.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the worst thing one could do for those families is hit them with a $1,000 payroll tax for every single worker. For a couple with both spouses earning $60,000 a year, the Liberal payroll tax would cost $2,000, and then the small business that employs that couple would also have to match that tax increase. That would kill jobs, according to the Canadian Federation of Independent Business. Now the Liberal leader has revealed that he would use the money as a source of revenue to fund infrastructure projects. Canadians are telling the Liberal Party, “keep your hands off our pensions”.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, to start with, we are opposing the Liberal-NDP plan for a new $1,000 payroll tax, which they would impose on every single middle-class worker and the small businesses that employ them. In contrast, we have brought in the family tax cut and benefits. Through income splitting, families can shave up to $2,000. Through the increased universal child care benefit, parents will receive almost $2,000 for each child under 6 and $720 for kids aged 6 through 17. The first big payments come out on July 20. We encourage all Canadians to ensure they are registered so they get the money they deserve.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, our government has consistently lowered taxes and created new voluntary options for Canadians to save, like the tax-free savings account. In contrast, the Liberal leader revealed a risky spending scheme that would force Canadians to take a $1,000 pay cut. It is clear that the Liberal leader has only one plan for our economy, and that is to raise taxes. Could the Minister of Finance please tell the House what our government is doing to help Canadians save?","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, it was the Senate that invited the Auditor General to review its expenses. The Auditor General presented a report yesterday and we expect that all senators will co-operate with that report. At the same time, we know that there are some 68 members of the NDP caucus who owe taxpayers $2.7 million. For instance, the member for Longueuil—Pierre-Boucher owes $14,911 and is refusing to pay it back. The member for Scarborough Southwest owes $141,000. The member for Parkdale—High Park owes over $1,000. The member for Vaudreuil-Soulanges owes $30,740. The member for Laval owes—","ndp satellite offices"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, again, the Liberal plan has a plan for all Canadians. It is higher taxes. In fact, the Liberal leader has confirmed that he would implement the Ontario Liberal payroll tax on every worker and every small businessman and woman in Canada. For workers earning $60,000 a year, the Liberal policy means they would lose $1,000 in take-home pay. That is a $1,000 tax hike. This mandatory payroll tax increase would kill jobs and force small businesses to cut hours and wages. By contrast, under the strong leadership of our Prime Minister, we have lowered taxes, created new options for Canadians—","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, under the strong leadership of our Prime Minister, our government has lowered taxes and created new voluntary opportunities for Canadians to save. Consistent with our record of creating voluntary options for Canadians to save their own money, we are open to giving Canadians the option to contribute more to the Canada pension plan on a voluntary basis. By contrast, we know that, given the chance, both the Liberals and the NDP would take away pension income splitting and shut down tax-free savings account. The Liberal plan is that for someone earning $60,000 a year, it would impose another $1,000 of taxes on it. Canadians cannot afford that.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the only plan that the Liberals and the New Democrats have for jobs is to raise taxes for job creators. What is more, both parties are saying they will support Kathleen Wynne's plan to impose a new $1,000 payroll tax on workers and the small businesses that employ them across the country. We are doing the opposite. By lowering taxes, we have created 1.2 million new jobs. We are going to continue with that approach.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the NDP's only plan for jobs is to tax people who create them. New Democrats, along with the Liberals, propose a new $1,000 payroll tax on workers and on the small businesses that employ them. The Canadian Federation of Independent Business says that would force the majority of employers to cut wages, jobs and hours. Our approach is to lower taxes and to expand trade and training. That has helped to create 1.2 million net new jobs, 80% of them full time and two-thirds in high-wage sectors.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the Liberal leader has confirmed that he would implement the Ontario Liberals' payroll tax on every worker and every small-business man and woman in Canada. That means that for a worker who is earning $60,000 a year, the Liberal leader would impose a $1,000 tax hike. This mandatory tax increase would kill jobs and force small businesses to either cut hours, wages, or in some cases, jobs. By contrast, under the strong leadership of our Prime Minister, we will give—","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the Liberal leader admits that he wants to eliminate the universal child care benefit, the child tax credit and income splitting for families. Even after all that, he admits that there would be a $2-billion hole in his plan, which he will have to make up for by increasing taxes. Furthermore, a few weeks ago he admitted that he wanted to impose a new $1,000 tax on every worker.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the only thing the Liberals propose is a new tax. They confirmed that they support Kathleen Wynne's payroll tax, which would be $1,000 in extra taxes for every single worker earning $60,000 a year. This is a new tax on every single worker that will hit especially hard for middle- and lower-income people, and it will be matched by the small businesses that employ those people. We oppose the Liberal job-killing payroll tax. We are lowering taxes for workers and families.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, I begin by correcting a falsehood. The Canada summer jobs program has actually been maintained at its existing funding levels. As for employment for young people, we have an approach that is the three t's: training, trade, and tax cuts. We have expanded trade through agreements with Europe and South Korea, and actually added 38 free trade agreements. We have given over half a million apprenticeship grants to help young people get high-paying jobs in blue-collar trades. Finally, we have cut taxes so small business owners can hire more young people. The Liberals promise a brand new $1,000 payroll tax that would start applying to young workers even when they are still in university.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank the hard-working member for Mississauga South. The Liberal leader has confirmed that he would impose a $1,000 tax hike on middle-class workers. We know that would kill jobs and it would set working families back. Now, more than ever, it is crystal clear that only our Conservative government can be trusted to keep taxes low for Canadians. Now is not the time for risky tax schemes and untested leadership.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, we will never support the New Democrat and Liberal plan, which would increase taxes for small and medium-sized businesses. First, they are proposing a $1,000 tax on every worker who earns $60,000 a year. Second, they are proposing that we impose that same tax on small and medium-sized businesses. These are job-killing taxes. That is a huge risk. We will do the opposite by lowering taxes for small and medium-sized businesses and creating jobs.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank the member for Whitby—Oshawa for the question. She is correct. Now is not the time for risky schemes and untested leadership. Our Conservative government rejects the $1,000 tax hike the Liberal leader wants to impose on middle-class workers. By contrast, our Conservative government has lowered taxes and has created new incentives for Canadians to save. Included in that is the tax-free savings account we just enhanced and the pooled registered pension plan. Only our government can be trusted to keep taxes low for Canadians.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the hard-working member for Chatham-Kent—Essex for that question. Our Conservative government understands that Canadians want low taxes and the freedom to make their own financial decisions. We are proud to be providing historic tax relief that is putting $6,600 back into the pockets of a typical two-earner family of four. We reject the Liberal leader's $1,000 tax hike on middle-class workers. Canadians know now is not the time for risky schemes and untested leadership.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, clearly we do not want Canadians to be overextended. We are reducing taxes on the middle class and providing benefits directly to families so they can use them for their priorities, such as balancing their budgets or paying off debt. A typical two-earner family of four will save up to $6,600 because of the measures of this government. However, the Liberal Party wants to raise taxes on the middle class and take away those benefits. The Liberal policy is a $1,000 tax increase that Canadians simply are saying “no” to.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the hard-working member for Oakville for the question. Our Conservative government has a strong record of reducing taxes for all Canadians. We brought in pension income splitting and tax-free savings accounts. We lowered taxes to the tune of $6,600 this year for a typical two-earner family of four. However, the Liberal leader has pledged to impose a $1,000 tax hike. Now is not the time for risky, high-tax schemes and untested leadership.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the only plan we have heard from the Liberals is to raise taxes. The Liberal leader's proposed dramatic payroll tax hike would kill jobs in Canada and impose a $1,000 tax hike on every Canadian employee. In contrast, we have lowered taxes for the middle class, and all Canadians, saving a typical family of four $6,600 this year. While we are putting money back in the pockets of Canadians, the Liberals want to take it out. Now is not the time for reckless spending and untested leadership.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, the NDP leader will take real change out of the pockets of Canadians. With his proposed tax increases, he will raise the price of gasoline, raise the price of electricity, and raise the costs on businesses. That is what a carbon tax would do. He then proposes, along with the Liberal leader, that they would bring in a new $1,000 payroll tax to fund a new pension scheme. Every working-class person would be forced pay it, and so would the small businesses that employ them. Canadians are not going to accept having the change stripped from their pockets. They are going to vote in favour of lower taxes.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank the member for Mississauga East—Cooksville for that excellent question. To benefit that member's constituents and all Canadians, our Conservative government brought in historic relief that is saving $6,600 this year for a typical two-earner family of four. Under our government, Canadians are paying the lowest taxes in over 50 years. However, the Liberal leader pledged to impose a mandatory $1,000 tax hike on middle-class workers. Now is simply not the time for risky NDP and Liberal high-tax schemes, reckless spending and untested leadership.","liberal payroll tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, that question only proves once again that the NDP is ideologically opposed to free trade. On our side of the House, we welcome the ninth round of negotiations as the benefits to Canadian workers and businesses through a free trade agreement with the EU are expected to be enormous: a 20% boost in bilateral trade; a $12 billion annual boost to Canada's economy; 80,000 new jobs for Canadian workers; and $1,000 average extra income for Canadian families.","trade agreement"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, no government has been as strong in stepping up for our military, and in particular our veterans, as this Conservative government. After years of neglect by our predecessors in the Liberal government, we have made sure that veterans are getting their due; that includes, of course, enhanced benefits that they will continue to get into the future. We have enhanced those benefits to make up for the deficiencies of the past, improving access to monthly benefits for seriously injured veterans to up to $1,600 per month for life. We have introduced a monthly $1,000 supplement for most seriously injured or ill veterans. We have done numerous other things for our veterans. We will always be there for our veterans.","veterans"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, Canadians know that our government's top priority remains completing the economic recovery and creating jobs. With one in five Canadian jobs dependent on trade, a trade agreement with the European Union has the potential to benefit Canada enormously. These benefits include a 20% boost in bilateral trade, almost 80,000 new jobs, and an extra $1,000 for the average Canadian family. Could the parliamentary secretary please give the House an update on the status of our trade negotiations with the European Union?","trade agreement"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank the member for Etobicoke Centre for his support for our job-creating pro-trade plan. Yesterday we announced the wrap-up of the ninth round of the comprehensive economic trade agreement with the European Union. The benefits from this trade agreement will be substantial. The hon. member mentioned them all: a 20% boost in bilateral trade, 80,000 new jobs, and nearly $1,000 on average per Canadian family. As we have done throughout negotiations, our government will continue to vigorously defend Canadian interests to ensure that this agreement--","trade agreement"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, again, I want to assure the House and the member that this Conservative government does not sign any agreements unless they are in the best interests of Canadians. The benefits of a CIDA agreement are significant. A study indicated that we could expect a 20% increase in bilateral trade between the European Union and Canada, an increase of 80,000 new jobs, a $1,000 increase in the average family's income, and a $12 billion increase in our GDP. It is only this Conservative government that will actually stand up.","trade agreement"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, we were successful in signing the comprehensive economic trading agreement with the European Union. There is something that will go up in Canada, without question. There will be a $12 billion annual boost to the Canadian economy, a $1,000 increase to every family's income, and somewhere in the neighbourhood of 80,000 new jobs created. In the meantime, we will continue to look after Canada's best interests, and that includes pharmaceuticals.","trade agreement"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, I reject the premise of the hon. member's question but I will tell him what the CETA with Europe will do. It will offer a 20% boost in bilateral trade between Canada and the European Union. It will add a $12 billion annual boost to Canada's economy. It will result in a $1,000 increase in the average Canadian family income and create almost 80,000 new jobs. For the life of me, I will never understand why the NDP is against all the good things that trade can bring to this country.","trade agreement"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, obviously the member opposite did not read the transcript. Nothing could be further from the truth. It is very clear that the current habitat policies go well beyond what is necessary to protect fish and fish habitat, and at the jeopardy of Canadians. For example, in 1993 a farmer in Quebec was fined $1,000 for dewatering of his field that had gone through a flood because there were a couple of fish in it. He had to buy a permit for fishing in the last flood because he would have been subject to a $100,000 fine otherwise.","environmental protection"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank my colleague for his French and also for the work he is doing with business entrepreneurs in his riding. I congratulate him. I would like to say that we have brought down a budget that is good for consumers, good for entrepreneurs and good for Canadians. The $1,000 hiring credit for small businesses will enable them to keep creating jobs and wealth in Canada. The “Cutting Red Tape” report will enable businesses to focus on what they do best: creating jobs. This is a good budget, and we are proud of it.","small business"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, in these challenging times for the global economy, our Conservative government remains squarely focused on what matters to Canadians. A free trade agreement with the European Union is expected to add 80,000 new jobs to our economy. That is like an additional $1,000 in the pocket of every family in the country. Can the hard-working Minister of International Trade share with the House how our government's pro-trade plan is creating jobs, economic growth and long-term prosperity for Canadians from coast to coast to coast?","trade agreement"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, let us recall the Liberal record on immigration. When the Liberals came to office, what is the first thing they did? They cut immigration by a third between 1993 and 1997. The second thing they did was immediately impose a $1,000 head tax on all newcomers to Canada. The third thing they did was to cut settlement funding for newcomers to Canada. The fourth thing they did was, through incompetence, run up a backlog of 840,000 newcomers in our system waiting for seven or eight years. We are proud of our record of cleaning up the problems that we inherited from the Liberals in our immigration system.","immigration tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, one of the first things that our government did when we first became government was to introduce the apprenticeship incentive grant. It is $1,000 a year for each of the first two years for people who sign up for apprenticeships. Then we brought in the apprenticeship completion grant, as well as tax relief for employers who take on apprentices. This will come as no surprise, but the NDP voted against all of those initiatives to help people become apprentices. In budget 2013 there is also a new program called the Canada jobs grant. In this program we will be working with industry and the provinces to make sure that young people and those who are already in the workforce or who perhaps are not working right now get access to the training that they need for the jobs that are in demand.","apprenticeship incentive grant"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, I would like to congratulate the member for Winnipeg North, because the first question he has asked on immigration in weeks he managed to get in at the end of question period on a Friday. That just shows how much the Liberals regard immigration matters. The Liberals never achieved a 12-month processing time for citizenship applications. They left behind a massive backlog, just like they left behind a backlog of nearly 900,000 applications for permanent residency—people were waiting for seven to eight years—just like they imposed a $1,000 right-of-landing fee and froze settlement funding for newcomers. Their record was one of abysmal failure on immigration.","immigration tax"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, these members acted in good faith. They were democratically elected by their constituents. The Elections Act is also very clear that loans to candidates that are not repaid become donations and that donations of more than $1,000 are illegal. Liberal leadership candidates also received illegal donations. When will the Liberal Party be accountable for those illegal donations?","political donations"
"cpc3","1K","Mr. Speaker, these negotiations are the most open and transparent that Canada has ever undertaken. In fact, the provinces are at the negotiating table when it comes to matters within their jurisdiction. Our government is committed to keeping Canadians informed and to consulting extensively on this agreement. I would also remind the member that this agreement will be Canada's most comprehensive ever, one that will open up new opportunities for Canada's exporters and manufacturers. It is expected to increase our GDP by $12 billion a year, which is the equivalent of 80,000 new jobs in Canada, or $1,000 for each Canadian in extra income per year. Those members should get on side with this program.","trade agreement"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, in just three years, Conservatives have cut over $1 billion in research funding, and they have slashed the jobs of over 4,000 government scientists. Conservatives claimed that the cuts would all be to the backrooms, but Statistics Canada confirms that front-line scientists were eliminated by the thousands. Muzzling scientists, gutting research funding, failing to collect data—this government's poor record and ideological cuts to research are hurting Canada's capacity for innovation. When will the Conservative war on science ever end?","research funding"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, I would rather rely on Statistics Canada data than on PMO spin. According to the latest numbers from Statistics Canada, the Conservatives have cut over $1 billion from funding for science since 2011. The Conservatives' war on science has put 4,000 federal researchers responsible for protecting our safety and our environment out of a job. When will the Conservatives put an end to their war on science?","research funding"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, after years happily raiding the EI fund for more than $57 billion, Conservatives and Liberals are now coming up with new ways to get workers to pay for their crackpot schemes. Just yesterday, we saw the Liberal leader make a bad idea even worse when he rolled out a plan that his so-called brain trust lowballed by almost $1 billion. I want to call it a battle of wits, but when it comes to EI, both sides seem to be a bit unarmed. Is this the only real debate between the old two parties, how best to use the employment insurance program for anything other than employment or insurance?","unknwon"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, it is rather dishonest to pay for election promises by sticking the provinces with the bill. The spokesperson for the Ontario Ministry of Finance stated that “If the federal government wants to reduce taxes in its own budget, it should ensure that there is not a fiscal cost as a byproduct to provinces”. Ontario stands to lose over $1 billion as a result of this measure. This is not the first time that the provinces have had to deal with the negative impact of Conservative decisions. Take for example the health transfers and the employment insurance reform. Does the Conservative government intend to provide financial compensation to the provinces if it moves forward with its promise to institute income splitting?","transfers to provinces"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, it will cost $550,000 to create a single job, but Conservatives think they are brilliant at the economy. When it comes to EI, Conservatives and Liberals seem to sing from the same songbook. They both love to raid the EI fund, they both love to cut millions of Canadians off the insurance program, and they both love to invent these hare-brained schemes that just do not work. It has gotten so bad for the Conservatives that the finance minister has to borrow Liberal math to justify his bad programs. Half $1 billion to create 800 jobs is outrageous. When is the government going to withdraw this terrible scheme and bring in a plan that actually puts Canadians back to work?","error"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, while the minister is spending hundreds of millions without any government analysis, veterans are facing deep cuts under the Conservatives. They are being told “no” when they are asking for help. Veterans are seeing the offices that served them shuttered by that government. Now we learn that over $1 billion intended to help veterans never got out the door because of Conservative mismanagement. How can the Conservatives justify this while they close veterans offices and shortchange injured soldiers?","veterans affairs"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, on my desk right now I have a file from a veteran in B.C. who was denied VIP service. I have another one from Ontario who was denied a hearing aid. I had a World War II veteran who was denied a lift so that he could go up and down his stairs. Why? The department says that it simply cannot finance these types of initiatives, yet we find out that over $1 billion has been sent back. I would like to ask a question directly to the parliamentary secretary. Has he no shame that these veterans and many others go without, while the government transfers $1 billion back to the finance department for its useless tax schemes?","veterans affairs"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, I recently met a disabled veteran who was wounded in training. He was forced to retire two years early and is now living on a pension that has been reduced by 35%. The government promised him care and a dignified retirement. He was even offered snow-clearing and lawn-mowing services, even though he lives in a bachelor apartment on the fourth floor. Can the minister explain why the $1 billion budget for veterans was transformed into a tax cut for the wealthy?","veterans affairs"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, a number of veterans' groups, including the Royal Canadian Legion, want to know why the Conservatives have withdrawn so much funding earmarked for veterans. More than $1 billion was taken away from veterans and put into the treasury. That is disgusting. That money was promised to veterans. Do the Conservatives have an explanation for our former soldiers who are still waiting for the services they need?","veterans affairs"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, yesterday the Conservatives suggested that lapsed funding would simply be carried forward. I have a page from this year's public accounts right here, and of the $167 million that was lapsed last year, zero, zilch, not a penny of that money, can be carried forward. The Conservatives misled veterans. How despicable. The Royal Canadian Legion and Canada's veterans deserve honest answers. Will Conservatives explain why they slashed services and closed offices, and why they pulled away over $1 billion from our nation's veterans?","veterans affairs"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, after Conservatives failed to deliver over $1 billion in promised funding to help veterans, and just before a potentially scathing new report from the Auditor General, the minister pops up and recycles an old announcement. Does the minister really think that recycling old commitments is suddenly going to make up for years of neglecting our injured vets and soldiers?","veterans affairs"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, for years, the Conservatives denied that there was an urgent need to deal with the mental health of our soldiers and veterans. Instead of providing soldiers and veterans with services, the Conservatives closed offices and tried to save more than $1 billion at their expense. It took a scathing report by the Auditor General and a public relations crisis for the government to finally do something about this. Does the minister really think that he can buy veterans' silence with $200 million?","veterans affairs"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the Auditor General's report is definitive. The Conservatives have failed to provide our veterans with speedy access to mental health care. In some cases, veterans wait up to eight months. The auditor says that is way too long, especially considering the number of veterans who have committed suicide. How can the minister justify sending $1 billion back to the treasury and firing staff when there are such desperate needs?","veterans affairs"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, Conservatives are spending public money, and they cannot even keep track of where it is going. They earmarked $4 billion to ensure that General Motors Canada could meet its pension obligations. Very good, but when it became clear it did not need the full amount, they sent $1 billion Canadian to the parent company in the U.S. Could he give us a clear answer? What exactly was the $1 billion spent on?","gm bailout"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, I am interested in the industry minister's comment, because Industry Canada has lost $1 billion and cannot tell us where it went. It has no idea where it went. It went to the States? Who knows? That is just one of many programs. It is a theme across the front bench. They constantly say it is the bureaucrats or it is somebody else's problem, but it is not their problem; they are only ministers. “I'm only the Prime Minister”, he says over there. At the end of the day, the Auditor General clearly said they are failing veterans. Can someone over there, just anyone, stand up with a little humility and say to veterans across this country, “We are sorry for what happened to you and we will make it better”?","gm bailout"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, distress levels among our veterans are a problem. According to the ombudsman, their suicide rate is 45% higher than in the general population. Alarm bells are going off, but the government is dragging its feet. The Auditor General says that a quarter of veterans have to wait over eight months before receiving mental health care. That is unacceptable. Why is the minister trying to save $1 billion at our veterans' expense?","veterans affairs"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, I am glad to see that the Minister of Finance is no longer benched. The Conservatives refuse to be accountable to Canadians about the assistance given to GM. The Auditor General informed us that out of the $4 billion given to GM, $1 billion ended up in the United States. Neither Industry Canada nor Export Development Canada had any records documenting the use of these funds, according to the Auditor General. Can the minister tell us what that money was used for?","gm bailout"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, we are talking about $1 billion that was not accounted for here and that went to the U.S. Maybe the minister should show some sense that he realizes this is a problem. Even after rejecting Chrysler and GM's initial plans, the Conservatives never bothered to follow up and look at the automakers' final restructuring. There was a troubling lack of transparency, the kind the Auditor General has flagged again and again. Can the minister even admit that there are problems?","gm bailout"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, with $1 billion missing, one would think the government would have at least a little humility and show some contrition to Canadians. Prince Rupert is a beautiful coastal British Columbia community with proud, hard-working Canadians. We can understand their surprise and total frustration that a ferry terminal upgrade at their port will be subject to Buy America policies on a Canadian port on Canadian federal crown land, where no Canadian steel or iron will be used. This is a direct result of Conservative failure to stand up for Canada. Why will the Conservatives not, for once, defend our interests here in Canada?","gm bailout"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the irony is that veterans will never believe Conservative promises again, because Canadians expect some contrition and shame from this minister. The case workers who were fired by the minister were front-line workers who were helping veterans. The Conservative government has closed nine regional offices and has fired a thousand people who helped veterans. It even took $1 billion out of veterans hands, money that was authorized by Parliament for veterans' needs. When will this Conservative decade of darkness for veterans end? When will the government start helping veterans instead of hurting veterans?","veterans affairs"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister tried to have us believe that the staffing cuts would have absolutely no impact on veterans, saying that it was just administrative staff that was cut. That is not true. The Auditor General's report clearly shows that the wait times have direct consequences on the health and quality of life of our veterans. Cutting one in four jobs and closing nine regional offices clearly has an impact on the quality of services. Parliament put $1 billion aside for this purpose. Why was that money not spent?","veterans affairs"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, yesterday we learned that in recent years, the Conservatives have paid more than a half million dollars in bonuses to executives at Veterans Affairs. Meanwhile, more than 1,000 employees lost their jobs in that department, which has resulted in cuts to services. Furthermore, $1 billion that should have gone to help veterans was put back into the treasury. Why are the Conservatives rewarding executives, the ones who laid off staff and who talk about saving money on the backs of veterans?","veterans affairs"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the Conservatives cannot just leave $1 billion on the table when our veterans do not even have access to the care and services they were promised. Nor should they close nine regional centres and fire 1,000 people who provide care and services to veterans while at the same time they give managers bonuses. Will the Prime Minister finally realize that veterans have lost confidence in this minister, who refuses to admit his mistakes?","veterans affairs"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, rising costs and slipping timelines of the F-35s were laid out in careful detail in yesterday's independent review report. There could be $1 billion more in costs and the final purchase could be pushed back to 2025, a far cry from the $9 billion originally claimed in 2010. The report also says three other jets could equally meet Canada's needs. Will the Conservatives be having an open competition, or are they still in favour of a sole-sourced purchase of the F-35s?","f-35"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, as a city councillor and MP, I have been advocating for a new border crossing for the Windsor-Detroit corridor. This is crucial for the economy and prosperity of both Canada and the united States, but the current government has negotiated such a poor deal, Canada has to front nearly $1 billion and pay for both countries. Despite a U.S. federal budget of roughly $3.5 trillion, the Conservatives could not even get the United States to pay for their own customs plaza, leaving it all up to Canadians. This is more ongoing infrastructure incompetence. How did it come to this?","canada-us border"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, as the national chief said, we cannot move toward reconciliation when far too many aboriginal communities are living in desperate conditions. Despite that, now we have learned that the Conservatives preferred to leave $1 billion just sitting there in the coffers of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs instead of funding essential services like education and access to clean water and housing. How can the government justify this gross negligence?","aboriginal"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the Conservatives are cutting border services to sign a $1 billion perimeter security deal with the U.S. From softwood lumber to the buy American act, every time the Conservatives negotiate a deal across the border, Canadians lose out, on jobs, the environment, natural resources and privacy. The government has a proven track record of being very bad negotiators. How can Canadians trust the government? What is on the table this time?","border security"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister works harder for the interests of his American friends than for those of Canadian families. We learned today that the perimeter security deal between Canada and the U.S. will cost $1 billion. Once again, this deal is not in the interest of Canadians. The government plans to use money cut from other programs to finance this deal. Why does the Prime Minister want to pay for a deal that will benefit only the U.S. while cutting services offered here in Canada?","border security"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the government keeps going on and on about what it has already done in order to justify turning its back on seniors in desperate need. Figures from the task force on financial literacy completely contradict what the Parliamentary Secretary just said. Every year, $1 billion in old age security benefits goes unclaimed. Furthermore, 70% of seniors who do not receive benefits have an income of less than $10,000. They are spending their golden years in poverty. Is the government trying to save money at the expense of seniors, by refusing to pay them their pensions?","old age security"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, today we learned the government's secret border deal with the Americans will cost Canadians a whopping $1 billion, and we still do not even know what the Conservatives are quietly negotiating away. We do not even know if Canadians' privacy will be protected in the secret deal. Every time we ask the government for assurances, we get nothing but silence. Canadians deserve answers, not secrecy, not stonewalling. When will the government come clean with what it is giving over to the Americans on this secret border deal? Canadians deserve to know this now.","border security"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, once again, we get a response from a government that is controlling critical information and keeping it from Canadians. This week, Canada and the United States are going to sign a border security agreement. We know that it is going to cost Canadian families at least $1 billion, but that is all we know because the government did not want to table the agreement in Parliament before signing it. Citizens' groups and the Information Commissioner are concerned about the possible infringement of privacy rights. Will the government finally reassure Canadians and tell them what this agreement says?","border security"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, we are quite far from the Wheat Board. The Prime Minister is in Washington today to sign a new border agreement with the United States. I guess Canadian politicians can go to Washington after all. Very little information has filtered from these secret negotiations. Canadians have had almost no input. The government will not even say what it has been negotiating away behind closed doors. Could the government confirm that the cost of the new border deal will be $1 billion?","border security"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, let me greet the new spokesperson for the President of the Treasury Board. The Conservatives keep reminding us that they spent $1 billion on the green infrastructure fund, but only 10% of that has been spent in three years. In committee, the Parliamentary Secretary to the President of the Treasury Board told us that it takes time to develop projects, but that the Conservatives plan to spend all the money. He never mentioned transfers. Publishing a report on a website but failing to include it in the budget on which parliamentarians vote is anything but transparent. Why does this government refuse to treat parliamentarians with respect? Why this lack of transparency?","infrastructure"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, instead of working with the provinces to make our streets and communities safer, the Conservatives are forcing their ineffective and costly prisons agenda on Canadians, costing Ontario taxpayers, for example, $1 billion alone. Why will the government not work with the provinces instead of downloading costs? Does it not agree with New Democrats that the pensions and services that Canadians rely on every day have a higher priority than the billions being spent on its prisons agenda?","prisons"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, I listen to the minister just about every day and it is clear that she does not understand that her plan is not working. I will map it out just for Toronto. There are 70,000 households, some 200,000 people, on waiting lists for affordable housing. The backlog for repairs at Toronto Community Housing will be $1 billion by 2015. The government is doing nothing. It says a lot but does nothing. Will the Conservatives commit today to supporting the New Democrats' national housing strategy?","toronto community housing"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, over $1 billion lies dormant in the government's coffers, when that money should be spent on upgrading trade corridors. This government has rejected all of the Port of Montreal's funding applications under the Ontario-Quebec continental gateway initiative. After demonstrating such a lack of leadership in the transportation sector in the Montreal region, can the minister explain to us why he is so intent on punishing the south shore by refusing to improve road and port infrastructure?","infrastructure"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, there is nothing responsible whatsoever about balancing the books on the backs of the provinces. The Conservatives' costly prison bill will cost the people of Ontario an extra $1 billion. That is more money for prisons, less resources for health care and services that families need. Why do they think taxpayers in Ontario, Quebec, in the west and Atlantic Canada should pay for their irresponsible choices? Why do they not put Canadian families first for a change?","prisons"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, I was speaking French and he still did not understand. I was talking about the aboriginal population, which makes up nearly 60% of the prison population in the prairie provinces. As for Quebec, I understood the minister's response, although it does not make sense in terms of the facts. Let us talk about the astronomical costs associated with his prison program. It is scary. Bill C-10 will cost Quebec and Ontario $1 billion each over five years. There will be fewer police officers on our streets and more criminals out of prison without proper preparation. Who is going to pay for all that? Taxpayers will, even though they are already being squeezed. How can the Conservatives justify such recklessness?","prisons"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, we in northern Ontario know the economy is suffering under the government's watch. In the March budget, the government chose to cut money that is used for economic development in northern Ontario. It has taken $1 billion from the forestry sector, millions more in tourism and marketing grants that went to small towns like Dryden, Atikokan, Gore Bay, Red Rock, Terrace Bay and many others. Where is the common sense in cutting economic development money for a struggling region during a fragile economic recovery?","forestry"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, in October last year the Minister of Public Works and Government Services , with much fanfare, announced a $1 billion contract to upgrade the Canadian army's fleet of LAV III combat vehicles. The General Dynamics Land Systems Edmonton plant was to create 110 secure, highly skilled jobs for five years. I have been advised that only six months later, these workers are already being laid off. Can the Minister of Public Works and Government Services confirm if these promised jobs are being cut?","army combat vehicles"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, these were highly skilled, well-paid manufacturing jobs for my province. The workers were promised job security. Was the $1 billion contract contingent upon delivering these Edmonton jobs? It raises an obvious question: how many of the jobs the government claims it has created still exist?","general dynamics contract"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the cost of Canada's mission in Afghanistan continues to rise, long after our combat operation has ended. Because of Conservative mismanagement of our diplomatic relations with the United Arab Emirates and due to the subsequent closure of our base, Camp Mirage, in the country, we now have to pay between $0.5 billion and $1 billion to bring our equipment home. Why do Canadian taxpayers have to foot the bill because of the Conservative diplomatic meltdown with the United Arab Emirates?","afghanistan"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the Conservatives' had the time to figure out how to reduce these expenses, but they did not do it. And now, taxpayers must foot the bill for the Conservatives' incompetence. They will have to pay between $500 million and $1 billion to bring back equipment from Afghanistan. Why did the Conservatives not budget for these expenses from the beginning? Why deliberately take a diplomatic hard line knowing that taxpayers will have to foot the bill?","afghanistan"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, today is the kickoff for the new lobster season in southwest Nova Scotia. However, fishermen are concerned about the new regulatory changes that DFO is imposing. The Canadian Independent Fish Harvesters have asked the minister for a year to transition to the new tagging system. They have even reluctantly agreed to pay for it. However, DFO is ignoring them. The east coast lobster fishery brings in $1 billion annually. On behalf of lobster fishermen, their families and coastal communities, why will the minister not stop being uncooperative and agree to this one-year transition?","lobster fshery"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, and still he sits, with cover gamely provided by the Minister of Public Works. Yet here is what she once had to say about holding a competition to replace the CF-18, that it “would risk the future of our aerospace industry because any delays, frankly, would be slamming the door shut on Canadian jobs”. Yet today the Conservatives have committed just shy of $1 billion to the joint strike fighter program and Canadian companies have received less than half of that in contracts. Billions of dollars in industrial benefits have been forgone. Are they finally prepared to start an open and transparent process?","f-35"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, I guess it is long past the time when the Minister of National Defence can stand up and defend his actions on the F-35 fiasco. That minister once said, “If this procurement is cancelled so another competition can be held, it will cost taxpayers $1 billion and will create an operational gap for the air force in the future”. In 2011, the Prime Minister even said that lives might be lost or at risk if the F-35 was not sole sourced. Will the minister or the Prime Minister either defend these statements or else apologize to Canadians for these outrageous comments?","f-35"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, they are making cuts to food safety but increasing the Senate's budget. They are cutting $1 billion from the infrastructure budget but increasing the propaganda budget. Not to mention that VIA Rail's budget is being slashed in half. More money for party friends and propaganda, less money for services for Canadians. Are the estimates a taste of what is to come in the next budget?","infrastructure"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, Marine Atlantic ferry rates are increasing on April 1. The fee hikes spell trouble for passenger travel in Newfoundland and Labrador, damaging its crucial tourism industry. It just reached the $1 billion mark. The trucking industry has said it cannot absorb a hike in commercial rates. Higher costs will be passed on to consumers. The price of goods will most definitely increase. Why are the Conservatives pricing the ferries out of service and making life more expensive for Newfoundlanders and Labradorians?","nfld tourism"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, this project has been announced, delayed, announced, cancelled and then announced again. Conservative incompetence in managing military projects is mind-boggling. This PBO report shows that the initial cancellation by the government could cost taxpayers over $1 billion, and it has been delayed by years. It is the Minister of National Defence who is responsible for this, and yet he is not even allowed to stand up and explain himself. When will the minister and the government finally take responsibility for their failure to manage this project?","f-35"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, it is Conservatives who should redeem themselves because the reality is we would have more than $1 billion less in infrastructure. The reality is that over $1 billion less is being invested in infrastructure. Even the Minister of Finance admitted it yesterday. These cuts will cause the loss of tens of thousands of jobs. The rebuilding of vital roads and bridges will be delayed or even abandoned. Why does the Minister of Finance not take infrastructure funding more seriously?","infrastructure"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, it is nice to see the minister default to his talking points. He did not listen to the question: Why do we pay 30% less for education for first nations youth than for other Canadians? The Conservatives' budget is a shell game. There is $1 billion less for infrastructure next year, then funding is frozen for 10 years, so 10 years of darkness for the communities and 10 years of crumbling infrastructure. Do the Conservatives not understand that the costs of government programs have to be adjusted for inflation? Is it incompetence or just dishonesty?","infrastructure"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the Conservatives are just playing a shell game when it comes to infrastructure spending. They are renaming some programs. They are cutting others. However, the net result is clear: over $1 billion taken out of infrastructure spending in each of the next two years. With crumbling bridges, gridlocked roads and transit being starved, it is a shell game that will cost our cities dearly. Why the deception? Why are the Conservatives claiming that their budget increases infrastructure when their own budget numbers contradict them?","infrastructure"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, confidential documents on the Giant Mine cleanup demonstrate it actually costs less to protect the environment than to just let polluters off the hook. The Treasury Board now pegs the cost of cleanup of the arsenic trioxide at double the government's previous claim, $903 million. Will the government admit it is wrong? Protecting the environment protects the taxpayer as well. For $1 billion, surely we can find a better way to treat this poison other than freezing it underground.","giant mine cleanup"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, today's Auditor General's report is another scathing indictment of Conservative mismanagement. Conservatives have actually lost track of, wait for it, $3.1 billion. The Treasury Board could not provide the Auditor General with even the most basic record to verify this spending. We all remember when the Liberals could not account for $1 billion in spending at HRSDC. Conservatives called it a $1 billion boondoggle. Will the Prime Minister hold his Minister of Public Safety accountable for this $3 billion boondoggle?","missing funds at hrsdc"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, we are not talking about the $50 million slush fund for the President of the Treasury Board's gazebos. We are talking about $3.1 billion. When the Liberals lost track of $1 billion at HRDC, the current Minister of National Defence said that the situation was extremely serious and that it warranted an investigation. Can the Prime Minister confirm that he has the same ethical standards as he did then and will he immediately announce an investigation?","missing funds at hrsdc"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the President of the Treasury Board claims the missing money can be found in public accounts, but the truth is, it cannot be found in public accounts. It was not presented to cabinet. It never came before Parliament, and it was hidden from Canadians. When the Liberals lost track of $1 billion, the opposition Conservatives howled with great disdain, yet the President of the Treasury Board continues to pretend that he was not at fault. When will he admit that he has lost track of $3 billion Canadian?","missing funds at hrsdc"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, my understanding is that someone, somewhere, entered $3.1 billion in the wrong column in an Excel spreadsheet, but we are not supposed to worry about it because the money was undoubtedly well spent. Is that correct? If we do not know where the money is, how can we be sure it was spent appropriately? That makes me think of a famous quote: “All of this sounds very familiar. The government denied the billion dollar boondoggle at HRDC...” Who said that? The current Prime Minister in 2002. The Conservatives were outraged that the Liberals lost $1 billion, but they have lost three times as much. Why is that not outrageous to them?","missing funds at hrsdc"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, they are trying to piss off the unions with Bill C-377 and irritate the people at VIA Rail, CBC and Canada Post. They are sticking their noses into the business of all those organizations, but meanwhile they do not even know what they did with $3 billion. We are not talking about $1 billion or $2 billion but $29 billion in taxes that they are unable to collect. They need to get their own house in order before they start meddling in the affairs of others. When these organizations have problems, the Conservatives say that those problems are not their responsibility and that the organizations are independent, yet, when it comes time to interfere for ideological reasons, these organizations can kiss their independence good-bye. The most ridiculous thing about this situation is that the Conservatives are saying that the bill will help to improve management. How can a minister who lost $3 billion claim that the CBC—","unknown"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, back in 2002, the Conservatives talked about the fact that $1 billion missing by the Liberals was trying to be swept under the rug. The only change now is that the rug is blue. Now, another little surprise for everyone who likes freedom of the press, who likes the CBC, is to find out that there is now going to be somebody from the Conservatives sitting at the negotiating table. Our only question is this: Is the President of the Treasury Board now responsible for determining whether Peter Mansbridge is allowed to be paid more than Ezra Levant?","missing funds at hrsdc"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, another question period, and again the Liberals do not want to know where the $3 billion disappeared to. Perhaps it is hanging out with the $1 billion they lost the first time. Clearly, a $13-billion fund allocated to the Conservatives and $3.1 billion cannot be accounted for. Of the money that was tracked for the Auditor General, he noted that the money went to an array of other things, including “...the services of a security expert to advise a host country on security matters related to the staging of an international sporting event.” Could any minister on the other side explain to Canadians what this involved and why, indeed, it was approved?","missing funds at hrsdc"
"ndp3","1B","Right, Mr. Speaker, so let me get it straight. When the Liberals lose $1 billion, for them it is a boondoggle. When the Conservatives lose $3 billion, for them it is business as usual. A year ago the Minister of Human Resources was warned that temporary foreign workers were being used to fill jobs in the same fields as unemployed Canadians. Let me try another simple question. If the Minister of Human Resources knew about all of this a year ago, why did the Prime Minister deny that there was a problem until just last week?","missing funds at hrsdc"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the lobster industry in the Maritimes is in turmoil again this year. The lobster boats in Prince Edward Island are tied up as a result of the prices for lobster beginning to head down to the $2.50 mark. This is an industry with a landed value of $600 million and exports over $1 billion. Will the minister agree to meet with provincial ministers and with harvesters to try to sort out a solution that will work for coastal communities in Atlantic Canada?","lobster fshery"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, how many billions of dollars will they have to lose track of before it becomes a problem? When the Liberals lost $1 billion, it was a scandal, but when the Conservatives lose $3 billion, it is not a problem. Is that how it works? If the money was not lost, can someone here explain how it was spent? My understanding is that when something is lost, that means nobody knows where it is. The Auditor General reported that the information required to trace this $3.1 billion is not in the public accounts. They should stop making excuses and tell us clearly where the money went.","missing funds at hrsdc"
"ndp3","1B","Mr. Speaker, this is another example of this government's lack of transparency. It has put over $1 billion into Atomic Energy of Canada Limited over the past few years, including $362 million this year alone. If there is wrongdoing within this organization, then Canadians deserve to know. Can the minister tell us when exactly he heard about the bid rigging at AECL and can he tell us why Canadians are just learning about this now?","atomic energy of canada"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, since coming to power the Conservative government has increased spending on outside consultants by almost $2 billion a year. A report that was released today on homelessness identifies that if they had spent that money on housing, they would have drastically and dramatically reduced homelessness in this country. Instead, they have hired their friends. With respect to housing wait times, does the minister want some evidence? Housing wait times across this country are growing. In Vancouver, close to 5,000 people are waiting. In Montreal, it is close to 10,000. In Winnipeg, over 4,500 people are waiting for housing. Instead of bringing consultants in-house, when is the government going to start building housing for Canadians who need housing now?","outside consultants"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, the Conservatives are replacing the child tax credit with a regressive income splitting scheme. Both cost about $2 billion a year, but the child tax credit helps significantly more families. It helps single parents and it also helps families where both parents earn similar wages. The Conservatives' new income splitting scheme will leave these families out in the cold. Why are the Conservatives scrapping the child tax credit and taking this money away from single parents just to pay for their regressive income splitting scheme?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, the Conservatives are spending $2 billion on an income-splitting proposal that does not apply to 85% of Canadian households. Does the minister understand that his income-splitting plan is simply not a good idea for Canadian families?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, the late Jim Flaherty said, “I think income-splitting needs a long, hard analytical look...to see who it affects...because I'm not sure that, overall, it benefits our society”. Perhaps Mr. Flaherty was thinking about the people in his riding. There are 5,700 single parent families in the riding of Whitby—Oshawa that will not get a dime from income splitting. Why are the Conservatives going ahead with this $2 billion regressive income splitting scheme that does nothing to benefit single parent families?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, I saw the light and I followed the guidance of my better angels who told me that income splitting would only benefit 15% of Canada's wealthiest families. When I learned that, I knew it was wrong, as did Jim Flaherty. Beyond that, in the riding of Yellowhead one out of every five families with children is a single parent family. Why are the Conservatives taking away a $2 billion tax credit that actually helps single parent families to pay for a $2 billion income splitting scheme that leaves these vulnerable families behind?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, the latest figures on economic growth show that the Canadian economy actually shrank in August. The GDP is down. The government has no growth agenda. Its sole reliance on the oil sector is wobbly. The dollar is down. The Governor of the Bank of Canada is telling 200,000 young people to work for nothing while they live in their parents' basement. How can the government justify a $2 billion income-splitting giveaway that helps only 15% of households, disproportionately the wealthy, and discourages economic growth?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","My goodness, they are are testy, Mr. Speaker. Mr. Flaherty warned that income splitting was too costly and unfair. He also worried about weak economic growth. On page 43 of the government's fiscal update, the Conservatives confirm that the rate of Canadian economic growth will actually drop every single year through to 2019. Investments in public infrastructure could help turn that around. So say the Chamber of Commerce, the premiers, the Bank of Canada, the IMF, and the G20. Will the government shift $2 billion from flawed income splitting to incremental infrastructure investment for greater growth?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, investments in public transit reduce commute times and help families to spend more time together. They reduce gridlock, enhance productivity, and drive up business efficiency. Instead, the Conservatives are touting a $2-billion income-splitting plan, all from borrowed money that excludes 85% of Canadian households. They do not hesitate to spend $750 million on self-serving advertising. Why all of this, instead of investing in critical infrastructure that creates jobs, drives growth, and benefits all Canadians?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, according to the Federation of Canadian Municipalities, the cultural infrastructure deficit stands at no less than $40 billion, putting this infrastructure category in the worst position by far. Instead of wasting $0.5 billion of taxpayers' money on a so-called tax credit that will create only 800 jobs, $740 million on self-serving propaganda, and over $2 billion on tax cuts for the wealthy, why is the government not investing that money in our theatres, our cultural institutions, and our community and recreation centres, which are in a pitiful state?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, we have a sacred obligation to our veterans who chose to put everything on the line for their country. The Prime Minister has denied this obligation in court and has slashed veterans' services. Why is his priority a $2 billion tax break for wealthy families like his and mine, instead of properly supporting our veterans?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister has cut hundreds of front-line Veterans Affairs staff. He has cut Veterans Affairs service centres. He has cut funding for war graves. On top of that, he actually gave bonuses to managers to cut those services. These are devastating cuts for our veterans, but a $2 billion tax break for the most wealthy. Where are the government's priorities?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, last week we learned that our economy began to shrink in November, back when oil prices were at $75 a barrel. The Bank of Canada recently said that middle-class families in western Canada face falling house prices and job losses. Why is the government giving a $2 billion tax break to those who do not need it, the wealthy, and nothing to those who actually do need it?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, Canada continues to struggle with helping its most vulnerable citizens. The Dignity for All campaign estimates that there are 4.8 million Canadians who cannot make ends meet and 250,000 homeless Canadians while shelters are bursting at the seams. Instead of tackling poverty, the government is spending $2 billion every year on income splitting so that the wealthiest can get thousands in tax breaks. Will the Conservatives abandon their reckless income-splitting plan and instead invest in fighting poverty?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, today, Dignity for All highlighted the shocking extent of hunger in Canada, especially amongst aboriginal peoples and northerners. Food bank usage is up 25% since 2008, and 70% of people in Nunavut are struggling to feed themselves. Canadians were horrified that the government's response to northerners scavenging for food at the dump was to deny the problem instead of fixing it. Why is the government spending $2 billion a year on income splitting for our wealthiest families instead of dealing with urgent issues like hunger?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, last year the building Canada fund was cut from over $2 billion to only $210 million for the entire country—nearly 90%. This year, as our economy faces new challenges, the fund is still only at $210 million. An April budget means a missed construction season. Will the government step up and be the partner the provinces and municipalities need it to be?","infrastructure"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, the Conservatives are cutting 90% of infrastructure spending, yet they see no problem with spending $29 million on billboards. The Conservatives are cutting money for infrastructure, they are giving up to $2 billion to the wealthiest Canadian families, and they are unable to table a budget. They have spent $29 million on billboards, and it is only February. Instead of governing, are the Conservatives already campaigning?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, record investments—I do not quite understand Conservative arithmetic. It is $2 billion one year, $210 million the next year. That is a cut, no matter what way one wants to state it. A cut is a cut. Investing in our infrastructure builds our communities and creates jobs. Winnipeg gets its water from Shoal Lake. There is a need for better access. Millions of dollars are required. The City of Winnipeg understands that. The Province of Manitoba understands that. Ottawa is not even at the table. Why is the government cutting infrastructure by 90%?","infrastructure"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, why would we apply for something if the government is not even making it available? It is from $2 billion to $210 million. It is about bad priorities: tax breaks for the rich and the income-splitting program mean hundreds of millions of dollars going to the wealthiest in Canada, while at the same time Conservatives are cutting back on investing in infrastructure. That is how they are going to help the middle class. Investing in our infrastructure is investing in Canadian communities. Will the incompetent government recognize its mistake and reverse its decision?","infrastructure"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, the budget for the building Canada fund for infrastructure dropped from $2 billion to $210 million this year. It has been cut by 90%. Retail stores are dropping like flies and the manufacturing sector has shed 400,000 jobs. These sectors need the infrastructure to be competitive and to create good jobs. In addition to delaying the budget, the Prime Minister told us, on Tuesday in the House, that we are going through an economic crisis. Is it true that we are in an economic crisis or did the Prime Minister make a mistake?","infrastructure"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, communities across Atlantic Canada have urgent infrastructure needs: water and sewer, transit and housing, roads and bridges. They are looking for the federal government to be a partner. The Conservatives' response is to cut funding, from $2 billion last year, to $210 million this year and next. We need investment now, not in 2020. Why do the Conservatives refuse to partner with municipalities to generate economic growth and help middle-class families?","infrastructure"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, the Conservative government is clipping the wings of Canada's air force, compromising its ability to train and to protect Canadians. Search and rescue helicopters and most aircraft are spending more and more time grounded in order to pinch pennies. Why? It is because the Conservatives are using defence budget cuts as a giant piggy bank to fund their election tax goodies, like the $2-billion income splitting tax break for the wealthiest Canadians. Will the minister restore DND funding and stop the broken promises to Canadians and to the women and men in uniform?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, over $2 million tax dollars have been spent for pictures when ministers have their special events. They really need to learn how to take selfies. Hundreds of millions of tax dollars have been spent on political advertising. It is about priorities. At the same time, there was a cutback from spending over $2 billion on infrastructure to $210 million last year. My question is for the Prime Minister. Why has he given up on valuable infrastructure expenditures? He should think of the Prairies. He should think of the needs of Calgary, Winnipeg and other municipalities.","infrastructure"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, we have heard that answer before. In fact, we have heard it countless times. What the government needs to understand is that the program it has put together is not working for cities. It does not work in cities. In fact, the program is back-end loaded. That is the problem. What we have seen is a 90% cut in infrastructure spending. What has happened is that it was $2 billion two years ago; it is $200 million now. This is hurting cities across this country. The question is very simple. Municipalities cannot wait. Cities cannot wait. Canadians cannot wait. Why will the government not fix the program now and spend the money now so that cities can get back to building infrastructure that we need in this country now?","infrastructure"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, according to the Federation of Canadian Municipalities, Canada faces a $123 billion infrastructure deficit. It is going up by $2 billion every year. By 2020, nearly 60% of Montreal's water pipes will have reached the end of their life cycle. The municipalities' confidence is decreasing every day, and so is that of the business world and Canadians in general, since we have a Minister of Finance who refuses to act. When will the minister take responsibility and deliver the budget?","infrastructure"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, Canada's economy shrank again. It has now shrunk in three of the last six months, ripping billions out of the Canadian economy with thousands of jobs lost. While there are too many young adults without even the prospect of a job, the Minister of Finance has been in hiding and the budget is undelivered. Will the Minister of Finance back away from implementing his already broken campaign promise that gives a $2 billion tax break to the rich and does absolutely nothing for most Canadians?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, while Canadians wait for the budget, the Minister of Finance is actually cutting funds for his department's fiscal and economic analysis unit by more than a third. The minister has a history of making mistakes and introducing bad policy. There is his so-called small business job credit, which rewards firing workers. Then there is his $2 billion a year income splitting plan, which manages to be unfair, fiscally irresponsible and bad for growth. Why is the minister getting rid of the evidence that might prevent him from making more mistakes?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, the Conservatives are once again lowering taxes for the rich. Income splitting—a $2 billion tax break—will disproportionately benefit the wealthy, and now the Conservatives are now preparing to double the contribution limits for tax free savings accounts. The majority of middle-class Canadians cannot take advantage of this measure. They are already struggling to make ends meet. Why are the Conservatives not helping the middle class? Why do they want to bring in even more tax breaks for the wealthy?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, he just makes it up. It all depends on one's conception of fairness. The government's $2-billion tax break pays a nice bonus to some families with incomes over $200,000, but 86% of Canadians can never qualify. A family with a single mom or dad gets nothing. A double-income family, where the breadwinners are two teachers at typical average salaries, can never qualify. Why not have one larger, fairer, non-taxable child benefit and cut the tax rate across the board on middle incomes?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, a $2 billion tax break that favours the wealthy, a higher tax-free savings limit for the wealthy and thousands more in child benefits for those who need the help the least, that is the Prime Minister's plan. Our plan offers thousands more every year, tax free to those who need it most. Why did he not instead use every nickel to help the middle class and those working to join it?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, benefiting every single family is not what is fair. What is fair is giving help to those who need it the most. A $2 billion tax break that favours the wealthiest families, a higher tax-free savings limit for the wealthy, and thousands more in benefits for those who need help the least: that is the Prime Minister's plan. Our plan offers thousands of dollars more every year, tax free, to those who need it the most. Why did he not instead use every nickel to help the middle class and those seeking to join it?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, the fact that after 10 years the Prime Minister does not understand that it is not the wealthiest families in this country that need the help is the really important message that he has passed today. For nearly 10 years, the Conservative government has been making choices that help the wealthiest Canadian families. The government granted $2 billion in tax relief for income splitting. It also doubled the tax-free savings account limit. When will it do something to help those who need it the most—the middle class and those trying hard to join it—rather than the wealthiest members of our society?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, if it is fair that child care benefits must be paid in exactly the same amount per child at all income levels, why do the Conservatives discriminate so radically against lower-income families? It is not just the uneven taxation of child care benefits. On top of that, their $2-billion tax break for income-splitting means a couple earning a $0.25 million can get $2,000, but a single mom or dad at the poverty line will get nothing at all. How is that fair? How is that equal?","income splitting"
"lib2","2B","Numbers do not lie, Mr. Speaker. The manufacturing performance is dismal, particularly with the dollar at 81¢, and it is part of a wider trend. The trade deficit has soared to historic highs: in January, $1.8 billion; in February, $2 billion; in March, an all-time slump, $3.9 billion; in April, another $3 billion. That is a total deficit so far this year of more than $10 billion. Without reciting talking points, could the government explain how it will turn those terrible numbers around?","trade deficit"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, to the same minister, he is talking about tax credits to small business of roughly $165 million, which sounds terrific, including all of his talk about how the government has never increased any taxes. However, could the minister please explain why his government is persisting on the truly retrograde path of taxing small business an additional $2 billion and employees $2 billion at the same time the economy is so fragile? Why is the government giving people $165 million and taking $2 billion out of their pockets? Where is the logic in that?","ei tax"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, the problem remains. There is noise and wind coming from the other side, but that is all right. The government cannot deny that it is problematic to impose a new $2 billion tax when the economy is extremely fragile. How can the minister explain this complete contradiction in the Conservative Party's policy?","ei tax"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, on the government's watch, job creation is declining quarter after quarter. According to leading economists, the few jobs being created are almost all low-paying, part-time, or temporary. In fact, today Canada still has over half a million fewer full-time jobs compared to August 2008. Given this sad situation, why is the government hurting private sector job creation with a whopping EI payroll tax increase, an almost $2 billion burden in the last two years?","ei tax"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, there are two versions of the F-35 costs, and Parliament and, by extension, the people--have been left confused by the various versions of these costs. In 2011, the Parliamentary Budget Officer presented a report estimating full life-cycle costs at $29 billion. The definition of full life-cycle costs is found in the GAO Cost Estimating and Assessment Guide at page 32, chapter 3. Without going into a lot of detail, it states: Life cycle can be thought of as a “cradle to grave” approach to managing a program throughout its useful life. This entails identifying all cost elements that pertain to the program from initial concept all the way through operations, support, and disposal. This is the definition that the Americans use, that the Parliamentary Budget Officer uses, that the Auditor General uses and that other nations use. Apparently, everyone uses this definition except the Minister of National Defence, the Prime Minister, the Associate Minister of National Defence and the Minister of Public Works and Government Services. The Parliamentary Budget Officer, using this definition, estimated the cost of the F-35 fighter at $29 billion and the Auditor General at $25 billion. The Department of National Defence, however, had two sets of books: the minister's version and the internal version. On the minister's version, which was for public consumption only, the cost was $15 billion. For internal purposes, however, DND estimated the full life cycle cost to be $25 billion. Hence, the $10 billion deceit. On June 14, 2011, in response to a question from his own colleague, the member for Kitchener—Waterloo, the Minister of National Defence stated: While the $9 billion sounds like a significant amount of money--and it is--keep in mind that it is amortized over a 25-plus-year period of time. He was even misleading his own members. In response to a question before the Standing Committee on National Defence on March 13, 2012, the Associate Minister of National Defence stated: I think the only factual answer that can be given at this point in time is that the Canadian government has allocated $9 billion to ensure that our men and women in the air force and in the military are afforded the best equipment possible to do their jobs. In testimony before the Standing Committee on National Defence on September 15, 2010, at which the Minister of National Defence and the Minister of Public Works and Government Services appeared, the following statement was provided to the committee by the assistant deputy minister of the Department of National Defence, Materiel, who stated: ...it's important to recognize that the quoted $9-billion program cost includes a lot more than the cost of 65 aircraft. The $9 billion also includes almost $2 billion in contingency and currency escalation, as well as elements such as the integrated logistics support, weapons, infrastructure simulation, etc., all of which would be intrinsic in any fighter that you chose to acquire. This was presented as it appears, an all-inclusive cost, hardly representative of the findings of the Auditor General. The contention of the Auditor General is that the facts concerning the procurement of the F-35s were not, to be charitable, accurately presented to Parliament. In his report, he clearly expressed concerns over the fact that parliamentarians were not given full and complete information. He said, on page 30, paragraph 2.76, “Some costs were not fully provided to parliamentarians”. I submit that is the understatement of the year. To reinforce this revelation by the Minister of National Defence that he knew the costing was at least $10 billion higher than had been publicly reported by the government to Parliament, the Auditor General has confirmed that fact subsequent to his appearance before the public accounts committee, a fact that the Speaker must take into account as it related directly to the question of privilege. It was reported that, according to the Auditor General, senior members of the Conservative government would have known that the cost of the aircraft had shot up to $25 billion by the time the 2011 election was to take place, but publicly stuck to a lower estimate of $15 billion. The Toronto Star on April 6, 2012, the Auditor General stated: I can’t speak to individuals who knew it, but it was information that was prepared within National Defence, and it’s certainly my understanding that that would have been information that, yes, that the government would have had. Furthermore, the Minister of National Defence appeared on CBC's Question Period on April 8 stating that he had been well aware that the costs associated with the F-35 were in fact $10 billion beyond the figures made available by the government prior to the Auditor General's report. What should be noted is that the minister did not make the statement either in the House or apparently before the standing committees of Parliament any time prior to April 5, 2012. The government has, in part, responded to this by claiming that the discrepancy in numbers is simply a difference in accounting. It claims that the costs it provided to the House of Commons was a lower number merely because it had chosen not to include the full life cycle cost. However, in the fall 2010 Auditor General's report on the acquisition of military helicopters on page 41, paragraph 6.74, in a response to the recommendation the Department of National Defence pledged to make it a policy to include, in the future, life cycle cost estimates when procuring military equipment. DND pledged to make full life cycle cost part of its presentation on any future procurement. Therefore, this is not a rounding error. This is not a mere difference in accounting. The policy of including life cycle costs was clearly understood by all parties, the department and the minister. This was a clear and deliberate attempt to mislead the members of the House. If the ring around from ministers has not made our heads spin yet, just wait. On page 3 of the Auditor General's spring 2012 report, which examined the bungled F-35 procurement, under “The departments have responded” section, we get the following: National Defence, Industry Canada, and Public Works and Government Services Canada have accepted the facts presented in the chapter. Both National Defence and Public Works and Government Services Canada disagree with the conclusions set out in paragraphs 2.80 and 2.81. The department agrees with the facts but disagrees with the conclusions. I have no idea what that means. Mr. Speaker, if you are not as confused as I am yet, just wait until we get to the ministers' responses. The Associate Minister of Defence, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Public Works all said: We do in fact accept the conclusions of the Auditor General, and we will in fact implement his recommendations. The Minister of Defence said, “We have said that we accept his conclusions”. The Associate Minister of National Defence said, “We accept the conclusions of the Auditor General”. The Minister of Public Works and Government Services said: I say to the member that our government believes very strongly that the Auditor General's recommendations and conclusions were accurate, and we agree with them. The Leader of the Government in the House of Commons said: This government has clearly expressed, through the ministers here, the views we have that we accept the findings of the Auditor General and the recommendations. The Government House Leader attempted to explain this inconsistency yesterday by disassociating himself with his previous remarks. He stated: I invite the Chair to take a comprehensive and complete reading of chapter 2 of the Auditor General's report. From that, one will see that it contemplates a distinction between the departments and their officials on the one hand, being National Defence and Public Works and Government Services, and the government or ministers on the other. That statement should send a chill through the spine of every parliamentarian and, indeed, all Canadians and government agencies and departments. On the surface, the government House leader, speaking for the Prime Minister and the government, has clearly decided that ministerial responsibility has its limits and that the limit occurs when the Conservative government is caught misleading Canadians and this Parliament. The government House leader would be well advised to read O'Brien and Bosc's House of Commons Procedure and Practice, second edition, 2009, or at least have someone read it for him, as there is a very clear definition of what constitutes ministerial responsibility contained in that volume. At page 32 it reads: The principle of individual ministerial responsibility holds that Ministers are accountable not only for their own actions as department heads, but also for the actions of their subordinates; individual ministerial responsibility provides the basis for accountability throughout the system. Virtually all departmental activity is carried out in the name of a Minister who, in turn, is responsible to Parliament for those acts. Ministers exercise power and are constitutionally responsible for the provision and conduct of government; Parliament holds them personally responsible for it. In a ruling by Speaker Milliken on April 27, 2010, at page 2041 of Debates, reference was made to a letter from an assistant deputy minister from the Department of Justice to the law clerk and parliamentary counsel dated December 9, 2009, concerning the obligation to submit documents to parliamentary committees, which stated in part that “government officials...are agents of the executive”. Clearly, government officials are not free agents. They act on behalf of their respective ministers. One could cite numerous authorities to support this statement but I do not believe that is necessary. What is interesting is that this avoidance of ministerial responsibility was not always articulated by the government. The following is a series of statements from the current Minister of Foreign Affairs made before the access to information and ethics committee on June 10, 2010, at page 4, concerning the committee's efforts to have ministerial staff appear before the committee to testify to illegal interference with access to information release. It reads: ...ministers are accountable and answerable to Parliament for government policies, decisions, and operations, and ministerial staff are accountable to their ministers. If anything, there is an attempt, I think, to strengthen accountability by having ministers take full responsibility for the actions of the members of their political staff in their office. On the same matter, on June 8, 2010, the Prime Minister stated, at page 3553 of the Debates, “...in our system, ministers are accountable to Parliament for their actions”. Later that day, the then parliamentary secretary to the minister stated, at page 3553 of the Debates, with respect to ministerial responsibility: ...for hundreds of years, the principle of ministerial accountability has been paramount here in the House and in its committees. We will continue to respect that principle in order to improve and build a Canada where politicians are accountable. The reasons for this firm belief and declaration of the principle of ministerial responsibility by the same government were made in an overt attempt to shield members of ministerial staff from having to testify before committees of this House to answer for illegal acts for which those staff members were identified. I would submit that the citation from O'Brien and Bosc and the statements made by the members of the government regarding ministerial responsibility run completely counter to the argument made by the government House leader in this place on April 4 in an attempt to place blame on departmental officials for failures associated with the accurate costing of the F-35 procurement and the presentation of inaccurate information before this Parliament. Before we get too confused, I will do a review. Point one, truthfulness is a cornerstone of parliamentary democracy. Point two, the universal definition of life-cycle costing, cradle to grave, is set out in the GAO Cost Estimating and Assessment Guide. Point three, the PBO used that definition when filing its report in 2011. Point four, the finance committee demanded a full life-cycle costing based upon that definition, which led to a non-confidence motion and the government's defeat. Point five, the Auditor General used that definition. Point six, DND pledged to use that definition in 2010, which it did but only for its own internal use. Point seven, DND, Public Works, etcetera, agree with the facts but not the conclusions. Point eight, ministers agreed with the facts and the conclusions. Point nine, the government House leader agrees with neither the facts nor the conclusion and blames it on the department. Point 10, the Minister of Foreign Affairs accepts the premise of ministerial responsibility for his staff and his department. What do we make of this confusion, the Keystone Kops' exercise in accountability? If this is not misleading, I do not know what it is. When misleading, incorrect or incomplete information is provided to the members in the House of Commons, it then becomes difficult, if not impossible, to adequately hold the government to account. This is viewed as such a serious offence that the 34th edition of Halsbury's Laws of England states at page 558: Ministers who knowingly mislead Parliament are expected to offer their resignation to the Prime Minister and such an offence might also be proceeded against as a contempt. I would argue that the case before you today, Mr. Speaker, is one of the most serious, egregious and clear cases of contempt that this House has ever seen. Over the past two years we have not only seen minister after minister but also the Prime Minister knowingly and purposefully repeat misleading and false statements to the House of Commons and to the Canadian public. Even with the release of the Auditor General's report, which confirmed what members of the House of Commons, the press, procurement experts and essentially anyone outside of the Conservative caucus already knew, that the numbers we were given were false, the government continued to try to confuse and mislead members by offering up contradictory responses to the report. The significance of this cannot and should not be underestimated. Page 201 of Erskine May cites a British resolution that clearly outlines ministerial accountability. ...that, in the opinion of this House, the following principles should govern the conduct of Ministers of the Crown in relation to Parliament: (1) Ministers have a duty to Parliament to account, and to be held to account, for the policies, decisions and actions of their Departments...; (2) It is of paramount importance that Ministers...give accurate and truthful information to Parliament, correcting any inadvertent error at the earliest opportunity. Ministers who knowingly mislead Parliament will be expected to offer their resignation to the Prime Minister; (3) Ministers should be as open as possible with Parliament... It is this resolution that gets to the crux of the problem we are facing here today. Mr. Speaker, you rightly call us to account if we call any member in this House a liar. You do this to preserve the dignity and tone of the debate and to prevent ad hominem attacks. Instead, debate in the House of Commons is intended to be based on fact rather than personality and on evidence rather than speculation. As the arbiter of this institution, Mr. Speaker, we are also required to speak through you. As we are expected to speak truth through you, it is a time-honoured tradition based on trust and honesty, one that is fundamental to our system. Here we have an instance where a number of ministers have spoken absolute falsehoods through you, Mr. Speaker, no ifs, ands or buts. The question is then: What must be done? If we cannot hold members to speaking the truth, then the entire premise of this institution is eroded. As members, our duty to constituents is to hold the government to account, but if we are not given full and proper information and are misled by the government, how can we fulfill this role? On page 510 of the House of Commons Procedure and Practice it states: The Speaker ensures that replies adhere to the dictates of order, decorum and parliamentary language. The Speaker, however, is not responsible for the quality or content of replies to questions. However, Speaker Milliken stated in his ruling on a similar question of privilege on February 10, 2011: This is not to say, however, that there are not circumstances when the Chair could determine, given the proper evidence, that statements made to the House have indeed breached the privileges of the House. According to Parliamentary Practice in New Zealand, third edition, at pages 653 to 654, in order to establish a prima facie finding that a breach of privilege and contempt has occurred, the requirements are clear: first, it must be proven that the statements were misleading; second, it must be established that the member at the time knew the statement was incorrect; and third, in the making of the statement, the minister intended to mislead the House. The government knew as early as June 2010 that the cost of the F-35s would be significantly higher than expected and yet chose to provide inaccurate and incomplete information to members of Parliament. When members of Parliament asked for clarification on these numbers, the government chose not to clarify the confusion. We know as a result of the Auditor General's report that the statements were misleading, but it is also very easy to conclude from this series of events that the government knew its statements would be misleading and that it intended to mislead. Following the tabling of the Auditor General's report, the government again made false and misleading statements. It posited that it had accepted the recommendations of the Auditor General after statements were clearly made in the report that indicated that the departments did not agree with a number of the conclusions. One can only assume that, by providing such contradictory responses, the government intended to mislead members of Parliament and Canadians. With the evidence I have laid out before you today, Mr. Speaker, I am adding my own voice to support the member for Toronto Centre's case for a prima facie finding of contempt. When members are allowed to lie in the House, it degrades not just our reputation and the reputation of the party they represent, but also your reputation, Mr. Speaker, my reputation and the reputation of this institution as a whole. I am not willing to stand for that, Canadians are not willing to stand for that and I hope and trust you will not be willing to stand for that.","f-35"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, one year ago Canada's negotiator on CETA told the trade committee that government had done internal analysis on the issue of drug costs. However, the minister refused us that study stating: “No, they're not available to this committee”. Now the Canadian Press, based on these studies, has confirmed our worst fear that European patents will increase Canadian drug costs by $2 billion per year. Will the minister admit to these additional drug costs to Canadians as a result of CETA, and will he now allow the committee access to that analysis in full?","drug costs"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, two former officials of the Minister of Finance's department have criticized, deeply, the pattern of secrecy and the abuse of Parliament by the government. The question is, now that the cat is out of the bag with respect to the $2 billion program which the government is intending to recapture and take away from the provinces, does the Prime Minister not agree that it is now time to consult, not broadly, simply saying it is consulting with all Canadians at all times, but to sit down with the provinces and talk about this program before the government suddenly announces it, springing it on the people of—","transfers to provinces"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, the Conservative plan for job training provides no new money, nothing incremental. The Conservatives will just claw back funds from the provinces, over $2 billion. For Saskatchewan, that is a cut of more than $60 million per year, hitting the province's single most important priority. Saskatchewan has that money at work, helping thousands of people in the job market: aboriginal people, immigrants, youth, the disabled and people with limited skills. Satisfaction rates are in the 90% range. Why does the federal government want to screw that up?","trade deficit"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, Canadians will pay nearly $2 billion more this year because of increased EI premiums. Meanwhile, the Conservatives have closed every youth employment centre in the country. The Conservatives' tariff hikes mean that Canadians will pay more for hundreds of everyday items. At the same time, they have lost the protection of search and rescue centres on both coasts. Why are the Conservatives forcing middle-class families to pay more taxes while receiving fewer services in return?","ei tax"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, in their last four budgets Conservatives have increased taxes on middle-class Canadians by billions and billions of dollars. Conservative tax increases on small businesses hurt the middle class. Conservative tax increases on payrolls hurt the middle class. Conservative tax increases on consumer goods hurt the middle class. Specifically, why does budget 2013 increase Conservative taxes on middle-class Canadians by nearly $2 billion every year?","ei tax"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, in budget 2013, on page 384, the Conservative government imposes $333 million per year in new Conservative taxes on consumer goods. On page 335, we see $550 million per year in new Conservative taxes on small businesses. On page 289, there is another $600 million per year in payroll taxes. That is not to mention taxes on credit unions, safety deposit boxes and more. There is close to $2 billion in new Conservative taxes on middle-class Canadians every year. Why?","ei tax"
"lib2","2B","Mr. Speaker, in budget 2013 the government increases taxes on middle-class Canadians by close to $2 billion every year. For example, on page 335, the Conservatives take $550 million more every year from the profits of small business owners. On page 289, there is a recurring payroll tax hike of another $600 million every year, an escalating, job-killing Conservative tax on every job in this country. Why does Conservative tax policy attack the middle class and all those who are working so hard to join the middle class?","ei tax"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, they are still working on it eight years later. In the 2008 election, the Conservatives' most expensive campaign promise was to reduce taxes on diesel fuel by nearly $1 billion each year. My question is for the Minister of Finance. It has been over five years. Has he reconsidered that promise as well?","diesel tax"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, Environment Canada's budget is about to be cut by 30%, from just over $1 billion to just under $700 million. Climate change and clean air programs will be cut by $179 million, from $234 million to $55 million. That is a whopping 77% cut to climate change programs. Is it any wonder that President Obama is deeply suspicious of the government's efforts to deal with GHG emissions? Will the minister tell us how a 77% cut will help her secure Keystone XL?","environment canada"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, once, a long time ago, the Conservatives promised Canadians a patient wait times guarantee. However, what Canadians got were longer wait times. I do not usually quote it, but the Fraser Institute reported that wait times cost our economy over $1 billion annually. Why have the Conservatives cut $250 million a year that was earmarked for the provinces to help reduce wait times? Why are they giving up on ensuring timely access to medical care? Do they not care any more?","wait times guarantee"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, there are two seasons in Canada: winter and construction. Every morning, GTA residents wake up to their daily nightmare, transit gridlock, which some estimates blame for a $1 billion annual loss in productivity. The $600 million the Conservatives owe the people of Ontario would go a long way toward alleviating GTA commuters' daily frustrations by financing a transit infrastructure fund. Where is the cheque?","gta gridlock"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the United Nations has said that it still has a $1 billion shortfall in the fight against the Ebola crisis. Will this government encourage Canadians to make donations, as it did for Haiti, and will it match the donations?","ebola"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, I said a few stupid things when I was a Conservative. That is why I joined the Liberals: so I would no longer have to say stupid things. Income splitting does nothing to create growth or strengthen the economy. It costs the provinces over $1 billion a year, which is money that will be taken out of health care and education, and it puts the federal government back into a structural deficit, according to the PBO. When will the government listen to reason and scrap this bad plan?","income splitting"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, here is what is at stake for Canada in the Ring of Fire: 5,500 jobs; $25 billion in economic activity for our financial services, wholesale, retail, utilities, infrastructure, and manufacturing sectors; full participation of first nation communities. Ontario has brought $1 billion to the table. An independent development corporation has been set up. Corporate investors are on standby. Time is of the essence. Will the Prime Minister meet with Ontario's premier by the end of this year, do his job, and support this project of national significance?","ring of fire project"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, speaking of bad choices, since 2006, the government has made new promises to returning soldiers and veterans totalling $1.1 billion, but those promises were broken. The programs and services were never delivered. The government pocketed the cash. What did it do with it? Since 2006, it blew it on nearly $750 million in tax-paid government advertising. How can it justify swiping $1 billion from veterans while wasting hundreds of millions on its own self-indulgence?","veterans affairs"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, despite our soldiers' pleas, the government closed nine veterans' service centres to save a few million dollars. We have learned that Veterans Affairs Canada has returned over $1 billion in unspent money to the Treasury since the Conservatives took office in 2006. During that same period, the government spent $743 million in advertising. Can the government explain why it places a higher priority on advertising to get re-elected than it does on taking care of our veterans?","veterans affairs"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the Conservatives robbed our brave veterans when they cut over $1 billion instead of funding vital programs and services. They spent $750 million in self-serving ads and are cynically trying to balance the budget on the backs of veterans suffering from PTSD. Veterans are waiting eight months for assistance. Veterans are travelling hours to see a case worker because Conservatives closed nine Veterans Affairs offices. Why do the Conservatives pretend to support our veterans when the facts clearly show that they abandoned them in their time of need?","veterans affairs"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, our veterans had every reason to be furious when the government announced that it was closing nine service centres in order to save a few million dollars. Now we have learned that Veterans Affairs has returned over $1 billion in unspent funding to the public treasury since 2006. What is the government doing with that money? It is spending $743 million on ads to get re-elected. If the government really wants to save money, why not make cuts to propaganda instead of veterans' service centres?","veterans affairs"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, in the past decade, we have lost more men and women in uniform to suicide than we did in Afghanistan. The Auditor General's report said that mental health support for our veterans was very slow, complex, poorly communicated, not tracked and not comprehensive enough. Why would the Prime Minister deliberately underspend over $1 billion in funding for our veterans?","veterans affairs"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the Auditor General's report shows the government is failing to provide the mental health services our veterans need and deserve. Refusing to provide timely access to those services is undeniable. One in five applicants for mental health care and other services are waiting upwards of eight months just for an approval. That is double the department's benchmark. Also, because it does not collect data, the government cannot even demonstrate that services are even effective. Why have the Conservatives short-changed our veterans by over $1 billion instead of investing the funds needed for adequate mental health services?","veterans affairs"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Veterans Affairs failed to deliver over $1 billion in support for veterans, which was promised by the government and voted on by this Parliament. He closed eight specialized service centres across the country. Veterans are forced to wait months, even years, for the most basic mental health services. When a new program gets announced, the minister misleads veterans by claiming that it will be delivered in six years, when it will really be spread over 50 years. There is no trust or credibility left. Will the minister simply stop the travesty and resign?","veterans affairs"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Veterans Affairs' level of incompetence is staggering. He ignored veterans' pleas and closed eight service centres; he held back $1 billion even as the government wasted $743 million on self-promoting ads; and he misled veterans by talking about a six-year, $200-million program even though he knew it was for 50 years. It is clear that the minister is incapable of doing his job. When will the Prime Minister show him the door?","veterans affairs"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the government members should be appalled, not applauding, especially in light of the scathing Auditor General's report that showed some veterans waited months, if not years, for access to mental health services. There is the lapsing of well over $1 billion promised for veterans services and now the rewarding of officials for denying services to our brave veterans. Are they still prepared to clap for a minister whose sole legacy is the shafting of Canadian veterans? When will the Prime Minister take action and punt the minister?","veterans affairs"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, savage cuts to front-line services are indefensible, and all the while the minister paid his managers hundreds of thousands of dollars in bonuses as they destroyed the department's ability to help our veterans, this on top of letting over $1 billion for veterans go unspent, excessive wait times for mental health, and ignoring the unanimous recommendations of the veterans committee. There was once a minister willing to stand up to the Prime Minister, but unfortunately Jim Flaherty is gone now. When will the Minister of Veterans Affairs stop the Prime Minister from making these callous cuts and misleading veterans and Canadians?","veterans affairs"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Veterans Affairs has overseen the clawback of over $1 billion that Parliament approved for veterans. He has cut front-line services that veterans desperately need. He has rewarded staff with thousands of dollars for denying veterans access to mental health services. Does the Prime Minister really believe that no one else in the Conservative caucus can do a better job than the current minister? What message is he sending to Canadians who elected the other Conservative MPs?","veterans affairs"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, over the past three weeks, we have learned that Veterans Affairs Canada has clawed back over $1 billion, that it has laid off one-quarter of its staff, that veterans are waiting for months or years for mental health services, that the minister misled us regarding the funding of $200 million that is really going to be spread over 50 years, and that the so-called cuts to administrative services are really going to affect front-line services and employees. When will the Prime Minister remove this incompetent and insensitive minister?","veterans affairs"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, over $1 billion in support for veterans was promised by the government, approved by Parliament, but never delivered. Eight specialized service centres were closed. Hundreds of front-line support staff were fired. Mental health wait times for vets stretched for dangerous months and years. However, the minister increased his political staff fourfold. He increased his advertising. He paid hundreds of thousands of dollars to bonus senior managers if they slashed veterans services. By any decent standard, how is that acceptable?","veterans affairs"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the government's annual cost estimate for replacing Canada's aging CF-18 fighter jets is a shocker. There is another $1 billion price hike for the F-35s that it planned to sole-source as Canada's largest military acquisition ever, with no competition, and still more delays will mean still higher costs. Will the Conservatives stop this ongoing fiasco and commit to Canadians that they will hold an open and transparent competition to replace these important jets?","f-35"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the Conservatives prevented the Department of Veterans Affairs from spending more than $1 billion that had been promised to veterans, and now we have learned that they plan on spending $1.7 billion on a new plane. National Defence spends its entire budget, but the Conservatives make sure that the Department of Veterans Affairs cannot do the same. Why do the Conservatives always put veterans last?","veterans affairs"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the treatment of our veterans by Conservatives is a national disgrace. The minister has clawed back over $1 billion from veterans. He has gutted the department, firing 1,000 front-line staff who delivered critical health services. He told those who suffered from PTSD to take a number. He closed nine specialized service centres. Canadians are appalled by this shameful Conservative neglect of veterans. The government has a sacred obligation to veterans, and it failed. When will the Prime Minister stop defending and fire this minister?","veterans affairs"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the government's own former employment minister said “wage rates have barely kept pace with inflation...”. Economic growth is also crucial to balancing the government's books. Conservatives have failed to generate growth, so they have to concoct a balance: 70% of infrastructure funds get punted into 2019, $1 billion gets clawed back from veterans, $10 billion is gone from DND, and the Mounties cannot keep up with child porn. Why? It is so that those earning $233,000 can get the biggest tax break. How smart is that?","veterans affairs"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, I would ask the Minister of Finance to present a budget, but if it is like the last one, maybe I do not want to hear the budget. Only two years ago, bridges and transit had a $2.4 billion annual investment by the federal government, which has now shrunk to just over $200 million. The mayor of Vancouver has confirmed that his city received zero dollars from the new building Canada fund. It is unbelievable. The impact of this is absolutely obvious. Vancouver now has the worst gridlock in Canada, a direct result of the current government's indifference. It is costing $1 billion a year. When will the Conservative government fund infrastructure? Where is the budget?","infrastructure"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, shame on the government, indeed, for doubling the TFSA is irresponsible. In a few short years, the costs will be over $1 billion a year, but then by 2040, it will be over $10 billion per year. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance admitted that this a problem and he said, “Why don't we leave that to [the] Prime Minister's granddaughter to solve that problem”. Does the Prime Minister agree with his finance minister that fiscal sustainability is a problem for his granddaughter's generation and not for him? Why is he putting a reverse home mortgage on Canada's fiscal house to pay for his election giveaways to the rich?","tax free savings accounts"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the people of B.C. have spoken loud and clear. In a historic referendum they rejected the HST tax grab that the Prime Minister rammed through the House. Now the Conservatives are planning to punish British Columbians. Forcing them to pay back over $1 billion is a spiteful reaction to the province's fair and democratic decision. When will the government agree to respect voters and treat B.C. voters fairly?","hst"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, for months now the government has been saying that the price per plane for the F-35 is $75 million. In light of statements made yesterday, the cost must have gone up to at least $125 million per plane. This leaves less than $1 billion for engines, spare parts, training, maintenance, initial suite of weapons, and everything else. The numbers just do not add up. In light of these new figures, would the Minister of National Defence now agree that the Parliamentary Budget Officer and the Congressional budget officer were right all along?","f-35"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, the United States has ratified its free trade agreement with South Korea. However, Canada is missing in action again. While the minister flits around all over the world talking trade, Canada continues to lose markets in established countries. South Korea, until now, imported over $1 billion of pork and beef. Now, as tariffs go down for the United States, we can expect our product to be displaced. Why has the minister sold out the Canadian pork industry? Is it really because the government has failed to negotiate a secure auto pact for both sides?","meat exports"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, after squandering $1 billion on gazebos and glow sticks, the man responsible for cost-cutting has now taken aim at the pensioners of tomorrow. But the President of the Treasury Board has another job: political responsibility for over 3.4 million baby boomers in Ontario, the same people soon to turn age 65. The government has caviar tastes when it comes to jets and jails, but a baloney budget when it comes to seniors. Which side is the minister on? Will he fight to protect pensions or is he going to lead the charge in slashing the budgets of senior citizens in Canada? Tell us which--","g8 slush fund"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, I am not sure that I understood the answer. I would like to quote the Minister of National Defence, who said on December 15, 2010 in the House of Commons, “Here is the truth. The truth is that the cancellation of the F-35 purchase could cost this country up to $1 billion.” And yet, no contract has yet been signed. Can the minister explain to Canadians what he meant?","f-35"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, as of March 15, the United States has implemented the full range of its free trade agreement with South Korea. The minister should know this is one of Canada's most important and established markets for Canadian pork and beef. The government talks of opening markets, but continues to allow established markets to slip away. Why is the government failing our beef and pork industry in a market that is worth $1 billion and when will it stand up, level the playing field and negotiate for the benefit of Canadians' hog and beef industry?","meat exports"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, we appear to have a Minister of National Defence who cannot defend himself. He further stated: Let me repeat it. $9 billion. I have no idea where these other figures are coming from. They’re simply made up — or they’re guessing. If this procurement is cancelled … so another competition can be held, it will cost taxpayers $1 billion and will create an operational gap for the air force in the future. “Everyone else is wrong, I'm right, they're making it up”. Will the minister apologize to Canadians and resign?","f-35"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, there were major job losses in Canada yesterday with the closure of Best Buy, Future Shop and other retail operations. The sales staff in those stores were largely young people; smart, tech savvy and getting their first job experience. Now, those jobs are gone, hundreds of them. At a time when youth employment remains at punishing recession-like levels, draining more than $1 billion every year from Canadian incomes, what new initiatives is the government prepared to launch to give some hope and some help to jobless young Canadians?","youth unemployment"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, by 2015, the government will have spent nearly $1 billion on partisan advertising. That is nearly three times what it spent on food safety this year, twice as much as what it spent on public health and more than 10 times what it spent on search and rescue. The Conservatives spent $1 billion on its economic action plan ads. I would just like everybody to imagine what we could have really done, what Canadians could have done with that $1 billion. When is the government going to stop this wasteful spending of taxpayer money and put that money where it is supposed be, which is in the pockets of Canadians, helping Canadians?","partisan ads"
"lib3","1B","Mr. Speaker, despite their $1 billion ad campaign to the contrary, Conservatives have no plan for prosperity for the middle class. Instead, they repeatedly punish the middle class. Conservatives taxed income trusts, wiping out billions of dollars in retirement savings. They made old age security harder to get, and the Conservative PRPP scheme is nothing other than a joke. Seventy per cent of Canadians have no pension, yet Conservative incompetence is making it harder to retire with dignity. Why does the Prime Minister want poverty to be part of retirement for the middle class?","partisan ads"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, let us put the new infrastructure funding cut into perspective. Ten years ago, the federal government committed $500 million for just one investment: the Canada line to Vancouver airport. However, today, the Conservatives' fund is down to just $200 million for an entire country. Vancouver's Broadway corridor generates billions in economic activity. However, to grow, it urgently needs rapid transit. Why are the Conservatives making our cities wait years longer for help with their critical infrastructure investments? Why are they sabotaging them rather than supporting them?","infrastructure"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, despite our soldiers' pleas, the Conservatives closed nine veterans' service centres this year. They preferred to spend $743 million on partisan propaganda. Although there have been 160 military suicides in the past decade, the Conservatives preferred to keep $1.1 billion that was allocated to veterans. Today, the day before the Auditor General is set to release a report, they are making a last-minute promise to allocate $200 million over six years to help veterans with mental health issues. Why should our veterans believe this government?","veterans"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, last week, the parliamentary secretary admitted that Veterans Affairs sent $1.13 billion back to the treasury, instead of spending it on veterans. This weekend, the minister contradicted his parliamentary secretary, saying that the money is recycled into veterans programs, but all we ever see are self-serving TV ads. Now facing a mounting backlash, and on the eve of the Auditor General's report, the Conservatives have announced inadequate funding for veterans and their families, a fraction of the $1.13 billion. Can the minister tell us now, of this $200 million announcement, how much do they plan to lapse?","veterans"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, in response to the Auditor General's scathing report, the Conservatives tried to mislead veterans and their families. They said that the $200 million that they promised for veterans would be spent over a period of six years. However, we now know that the money will be spent over a period of 50 years. Fifty years. How can the government defend such subterfuge?","veterans"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, in its own press release, the government spoke of “providing an additional investment of approximately $200 million over the next six years”, when, in fact, the investment is over 50 years. We know the government is ashamed of this paltry $200 million over 50 years attempt to mislead the veterans. Why else would the website announcing the program have disappeared from the Internet? How can the government explain these actions?","veterans"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, the Minister of Veterans Affairs' level of incompetence is staggering. He ignored veterans' pleas and closed eight service centres; he held back $1 billion even as the government wasted $743 million on self-promoting ads; and he misled veterans by talking about a six-year, $200-million program even though he knew it was for 50 years. It is clear that the minister is incapable of doing his job. When will the Prime Minister show him the door?","veterans"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, my question is for the Minister of Veterans Affairs. Is the program that the government announced last week for $200 million over 6 years or over 50 years?","veterans"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, veterans deserve honesty and they deserve to be a priority. To mitigate the damaging Auditor General's report, the Prime Minister trumpeted $200 million in veterans funding, hoping we would not see the small print that explained it was to be given over 50 years. Why billions for immediate tax breaks that help wealthy families like the Prime Minister's or my own, but only pennies for veterans?","veterans"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, over the past three weeks, we have learned that Veterans Affairs Canada has clawed back over $1 billion, that it has laid off one-quarter of its staff, that veterans are waiting for months or years for mental health services, that the minister misled us regarding the funding of $200 million that is really going to be spread over 50 years, and that the so-called cuts to administrative services are really going to affect front-line services and employees. When will the Prime Minister remove this incompetent and insensitive minister?","veterans"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, we have heard that answer before. In fact, we have heard it countless times. What the government needs to understand is that the program it has put together is not working for cities. It does not work in cities. In fact, the program is back-end loaded. That is the problem. What we have seen is a 90% cut in infrastructure spending. What has happened is that it was $2 billion two years ago; it is $200 million now. This is hurting cities across this country. The question is very simple. Municipalities cannot wait. Cities cannot wait. Canadians cannot wait. Why will the government not fix the program now and spend the money now so that cities can get back to building infrastructure that we need in this country now?","veterans"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, the Canadian Federation of Agriculture and the Canadian Young Farmers are in Ottawa. I met with many of them this week and they tell me that there is a great future in agriculture, but their biggest concern is how the government is treating them, especially the business risk management programs, which have been cut by over $200 million per year. With so much potential for agriculture, why are the Conservatives cutting this very important funding?","agriculture"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, two years ago, the government set up a $200 million fund to support advanced manufacturing in Ontario, but as of now, it has not spent one penny. Since the government came to office, Ontario manufacturing jobs are down a staggering 25% and exports down 20%, yet Conservatives have not spent a penny of the fund. Is the Prime Minister so disconnected from the economy that he no longer cares about struggling middle-class Canadians in the manufacturing sector?","manufacturing in ontario"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, yesterday when asked about the government's weak commitment to southern Ontario's manufacturing, the minister flippantly answered with spin. Ontario families who have lost their manufacturing jobs are sick and tired of his spin. They are looking for jobs. It has been more than two years since Parliament authorized over $200 million to help rebuild Ontario's struggling manufacturing sector. Can the minister list even five projects that have been funded by the advanced manufacturing sector specifically or is he just going to give us more spin?","manufacturing in ontario"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, I would ask the Minister of Finance to present a budget, but if it is like the last one, maybe I do not want to hear the budget. Only two years ago, bridges and transit had a $2.4 billion annual investment by the federal government, which has now shrunk to just over $200 million. The mayor of Vancouver has confirmed that his city received zero dollars from the new building Canada fund. It is unbelievable. The impact of this is absolutely obvious. Vancouver now has the worst gridlock in Canada, a direct result of the current government's indifference. It is costing $1 billion a year. When will the Conservative government fund infrastructure? Where is the budget?","infrastructure"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, every year, the Conservative government intentionally underspends in excess of $200 million. This is now five years in a row that has taken place. Every member of this chamber, I am sure, is aware of the many reserves that rely on boiling their water in order to have drinking water. Many reserves are on an advisory. Every member is aware of the deficiencies in education within the reserves. How does the Conservative government justify stealing over $200 million a year in the past five years when the needs are so great in Canada's first nations—","aboriginal"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, the Minister of National Defence made a public declaration that, while a guest at a luxury fishing lodge, neither his host nor his companions had any business dealings with the Government of Canada, and yet the facts speak very differently. Mr. Rob Crosbie is a political appointee in control of a federal crown corporation that receives $200 million in annual subsidies from which he draws a personal salary. How does the minister square this contradiction and, while I am on my feet, was the fish this big or just this big?","marine atlantic"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, the minister is about to defend the gutting of $200 million from Veterans Affairs. I can see that he has his PMO script all ready to go. Why did Veterans Affairs spend $3 million on backdrops--","veterans affairs"
"lib4","200M","Why did Veterans Affairs spend almost $3 million on photo ops while gutting the department by $200 million? Why are there millions for PR stunts but nothing but cutbacks for the people who really matter, our veterans?","veterans affairs"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, the Conservatives are shortchanging our brave veterans by cutting more than $200 million from their budget. Today at committee the Liberals fought back and won a small victory for the vets. Our motion to study these massive cuts passed because Conservative members did not show up to the veterans affairs committee on time today to defeat it. Would the minister commit to appear at committee and explain why he is cutting support to our veterans, and will he be on time?","veterans affairs"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, Remembrance Day approaches. The Conservatives are commemorating this occasion by cutting more than $200 million in funding to Veterans Affairs and axing more than 500 jobs. They suggest that the cuts will be absorbed through attrition, which is false, and by calculating the mortality rate of veterans, which is offensive. The ombudsman says that new vets are outpacing the death rate of older vets. No one believes the minister except the echo chamber around him. When will Conservatives stop their assault on veterans and exempt the department from cuts?","veterans affairs"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, first the government robbed wheat farmers of their right to vote. Now we know the minister is taking wheat farmers' money to fund his folly. In an eleventh hour act of desperation, the government has increased the cap on the Wheat Board's contingency fund from $60 million to $200 million to fund its own ideological obsession with killing the single desk. That is money that should rightfully be returned to farmers. When did the government get into highway robbery and when will the minister do the right thing and give farmers back their hard-earned money?","wheat board"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, the Conservatives cut off debate on the Canadian Wheat Board in the House twice and they tied the committee's hands behind its back. They tried and failed to pre-emptively cut off debate in the Senate. They ignored the farmer vote. They are deaf to farmers' voices. They have taken their clout away, and now $200 million of their hard-earned dollars and put our national food sovereignty in jeopardy. Could the minister tell the House if he gave a second thought to how he is disfiguring western provinces and rural life with his ideological steamroller?","wheat board"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, to distract us from the minister's incompetence and to counter its miserable record on the environment, this government has announced with gusto a paltry $120 million annually to fight climate change in Canada. In the past three years, Quebec alone has invested almost twice that amount, $200 million per year. Do the Conservatives really believe that such a pittance will make us forget the six years of inaction, obstruction, ignorance and bad faith?","climate change"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, in their accountability election platform, the Conservatives promised to require ministers and senior government officials to record their contacts with lobbyists. The Lobbying Commissioner's report is clear that the government broke this promise because it failed to blow the whistle on two well-connected Conservative operatives who used their privileged access to lobby five ministers for nearly $200 million in contracts. Will the Attorney General finally get tough on Conservative crime and lay criminal charges against Jaffer and Glémaud?","lobbying"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, we listened to Hubert Lacroix's speech and, contrary to what the minister says, this is a sad day, not only for Canada's Francophonie, but also for culture and for the regions. Financial pressure is forcing the CBC to cut over $200 million. Not only will this affect analog airwaves, but the CBC is also saying it will have to scale back its plans to expand local service, digital specialty channels, signature events and cross-cultural programming. What does the minister have against the CBC? Why will he not stand up for the interests of Canadians and the Francophonie?","cbc"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the answer from the minister, but the fact remains that in 2013-14, that is to say the fiscal year under way, the government is actually going to be spending $1.5 billion less in the fund that last year was $1.7 billion. This year it is simply going to be $200 million. How can the minister stand up and say this is great news for the municipalities, when, in fact, they are going to be spending $1.5 billion less?","infrastructure"
"lib4","200M","Mr. Speaker, I will give the minister another chance to explain to people why the government will be spending $200 million under budget 2013-14, when it spent $1.7 billion last year. The minister must recognize that having less money in this year's budget than in last year's is a problem. In our opinion, that is what is wrong with the government's plan.","infrastructure"
